============================================================
OSRS WIKI REFERENCE — Compressed Game Knowledge
Source: wiki.oldschool.runescape.wiki (4,491 articles)
============================================================


## Skills (359 articles)
----------------------------------------

### A magic scroll
A magic scroll is an item used in The Hand in the Sand quest. Bert finds it in his house, and after taking it to Zavistic Rarve, the player learns that it is a mind-altering scroll, which caused Bert to not notice when his work schedule was changed but his pay had not been increased.


### Adamantite armour (Construction)
The adamant armour stand can be built in the armour space of the skill hall in a player-owned house. It requires 28 Construction and 88 Smithing to build, awarding 150 Construction experience and 25 Smithing experience. Trimmed armour cannot be used. The player must have a hammer and a saw in their inventory to build it. If the stand is removed, the armour pieces used are returned to the player.
Creation


### Aerial fishing
Aerial fishing is a hybrid Fishing and Hunter technique requiring 35 Hunter and 43 Fishing. The aerial fishing technique is used to catch several fish species at Lake Molch.
Hunters can get a cormorant's glove and a cormorant, free of charge, from the fishing expert Alry the Angler at Lake Molch. Both hands must be free for aerial fishing, which means no items may be carried in the weapon, shield, or hands slots. It is possible to use skill boosts to receive a cormorant's glove, which will allow players to catch bluegill even if their level(s) drain back to normal.
With a cormorant's glove equipped, and a suitable reward (such as king worms, fish offcuts, or fine fish offcuts) for the cormorant in their inventory, players may send the cormorant out to catch a fish.


### Agility
Agility is a members-only skill which gives access to various shortcuts around Gielinor. Other benefits of the skill include faster run energy restoration, slower run energy dissipation while running, and the ability to wear weight-saving outfits like the graceful outfit, as well as wield certain tools and weaponry. Note that the passive benefits of faster energy restore and lower run energy drain rate also apply in free-to-play worlds.
Run energy
Agility level reduces the rate at which run energy drains while running and increases energy regeneration while standing still or walking. Energy is also affected by temporary boosts to agility, stamina potions, and certain items such as the graceful outfit and ring of endurance.


### Agility Arena Store
The Agility Arena Store is the rewards shop for the Brimhaven Agility Arena minigame, run by Pirate Jackie the Fruit at the minigame's entrance. Players can exchange Agility arena tickets for 345 Agility experience each (379.5 experience each with Karamja gloves 2 or higher equipped), and Brimhaven vouchers for items and a recolour of the graceful outfit.
When buying the toadflax or snapdragon from the store, it will come noted.
Stock
Items
Agility Experience


### Agility Boss
The Agility Boss is a werewolf found at the Werewolf Agility Course. He throws the stick into the Agility course for the player to get.


### Agility Instructor
The Agility Instructor is a penguin with a megaphone at the end of the Penguin Agility Course.
Unlike the gnome trainers at the Gnome Stronghold Agility Course, the agility instructor does not shout any encouragement or motivation to players completing the course.


### Agility Pyramid
The Agility Pyramid, also known as the Jaleustrophos Pyramid (meaning Tomb of the Agile in an old desert language), is an Agility training area located in the Kharidian Desert, between Sophanem and Nardah, available to players with level 30 Agility.
On this course, players start at the bottom of a pyramid with the goal of reaching the top, where they are able to collect the pyramid top. Players have to successfully traverse each of the five layers of the pyramid, which are filled with obstacles that force the player back to the previous layer upon failure to pass them.
Pyramid tops may be handed in to Simon Templeton in exchange for 10,000 coins each and respawn only when the player has entered the doorway at the top of the pyramid.


### Agility Pyramid mine
The Agility Pyramid mine is located just north of the Wanderer's tent from Icthlarin's Little Helper. It contains five gold rocks. Due to the distance from any bank and the damaging desert heat, it is not considered a very good place to gather gold ore. The closest bank is at Sophanem, which is only accessible after the completion of the Contact! quest.
Players can bank easily in Sophanem after completing the quests Contact! and Icthlarin's Little Helper through entering the "rock" just to the south, which brings them directly into Sophanem into the building just beside where they emerge.
Rocks
Ways to get there
Walking from Shantay Pass
Camulet, then walking south-east to Sophanem
Magic carpet from Shantay Pass
Pharaoh's sceptre to Agility Pyramid


### Agility Trainer
Agility Trainers are werewolves found at the Werewolf Agility Course. After completion of the course, the stick must be given to one of them to receive extra Agility experience. Other wolves are scattered across the course.


### Agility arena ticket
Agility Arena tickets are earned by taking part in the Brimhaven Agility Arena. One ticket and one Brimhaven voucher are earned for tagging a ticket dispenser. They are exchanged at the Agility Arena Store by talking to Pirate Jackie the Fruit for 345 Agility experience each, or 379.5 experience each with Karamja gloves 2 or higher equipped.
One ticket can be obtained per minute as the dispenser respawns every minute. Completion of the Elite Karamja Diary gives a 10% chance of receiving two Agility Arena tickets and Brimhaven vouchers when tagging a dispenser. Without the diary and never missing a dispenser, it takes at least 1 hour and 37 minutes for 100 tickets and around 16 hours for 1,000 tickets.


### Agility mix
Agility mix is a barbarian potion that boosts a player's Agility level by 3 and heals 6 Hitpoints. It is made by adding caviar to an agility potion(2), requiring level 37 Herblore and giving 27 experience. This mix can only be created after completing the Herblore part of Barbarian training with Otto Godblessed.
Drinking a sip of the potion gives the message "You drink the lumpy potion". If the player drinks all doses or empties the potion, it will become a regular empty vial.
Creation


### Agility potion
Agility potions are made by mixing toadflax into a vial of water, creating a Toadflax potion (unf), and then adding toad's legs. This requires level 34 Herblore, and grants 80 Herblore experience. Agility potions temporarily raise your Agility by 3.
A 4-dose agility potion is required for Tai Bwo Wannai Trio. Ironmen who want to complete the quest but do not have the Herblore requirement can have an irit leaf cleaned by Zahur in Nardah (for 200 coins), then wait for the Dr Jekyll random event, for which he will trade the irit leaf for a 4-dose agility potion. Alternatively, level 40, 63, 72, and 77 skeletons in Tarn's Lair as well as the level 77 skeletons nearby the entrance to the Ruins of Ullek can drop 2-dose agility potions, which can be decanted into a 4-dose potion.


### Agility/Experience table
This table shows all possible experience sources for Agility in the game, as well as all interactions that require an Agility level. It also lists the items involved in the interactions, as well as other skills involved in processing the item.


### Alan (Farming Guild)
Alan is a gardener in the Farming Guild, near the allotment patches. He can be paid to look after crops planted in the allotment patches.
Shop
Alan also sells basic farming tools via the Farming Supplies shop, which can be accessed by talking to him and asking Can you sell me something?, or by the right-click Trade option.


### Aleck's Hunter Emporium.
Aleck's Hunter Emporium is a shop in Yanille run by Aleck, just east of the tavern. The shop sells Hunter items and is managed and owned by Aleck. It is one of four Hunter shops, the others being the Nardah Hunter Shop in Nardah, Elder Strom's Hunting Stall in The Summer Shore and Imia's Supplies in the Hunter Guild. It is located conveniently close to the Feldip hunting grounds. Viewing the shop is a requirement for the Easy Ardougne Diary.
Also found in the shop is Leon, who sells the Hunters' crossbow.
Stock


### Alice's Farming shop.
Alice's Farming shop is a Farming shop at Alice's farm west of Port Phasmatys selling various Farming items and will buy some farming produce.
Stock


### Allanna's Farming Shop
Allanna's Farming Shop is a farming shop run by Allanna, located in the Farming Guild. It sells an assortment of farming tools and supplies.
Stock


### Amelia (Farming Guild)
Amelia is the owner of Amelia's Seed Shop, found in the Farming Guild. Her shop sells a variety of allotment, flower, and hops seeds.
Stock


### Amlodd's Magical Supplies
Amlodd's Magical Supplies is a rune shop run by Efa on the north-west side of Prifddinas. It is one of few shops to stock cosmic runes, and the only shop to stock more than 30.
Stock


### Amulet of defence
The amulet of defence is created when an emerald amulet has been enchanted using the Lvl-2 Enchant spell. It is not widely used, as it only gives defence bonuses. However, it can prove useful in situations where more damage is going to be taken than dealt, such as skilling in the Wilderness or activities like Pyramid Plunder. For this purpose, for Members, the Gnome amulet can be a better option as it has nearly twice the melee defensive bonuses (but no ranged or magic defensive bonuses).
Amulets of defence can be sold to Davon's Amulet Store in Brimhaven, starting at 1,147 coins each if none are in stock. The amulet of defence (t), a cosmetic variant, can be obtained as a rare reward from beginner clue scrolls.
Creation
Item sources
Used in recommended equipment


### Amulet of magic
An amulet of magic is an amulet that gives a Magic attack bonus when worn. It is created by casting Lvl-1 Enchant on a sapphire amulet. It is one of the cheapest and most common amulets in the game because of the low Crafting level to craft it, how common sapphires are, and the low Magic level to enchant the amulet.
A normal amulet of magic, as well as its trimmed variant are both possible reward for the completion of easy Treasure Trails.
Creation
Item sources
Used in recommended equipment


### Amulet of strength
The Amulet of strength is an enchanted ruby amulet. Players frequently use it to increase their max hit. At level 50 Crafting, players can craft a ruby amulet. With at least 49 Magic, Lvl-3 Enchant can be cast on a ruby amulet to create an amulet of strength.
A trimmed version of the amulet of strength is available from medium clue scrolls.
Creation
Treasure Trails
Item sources
Used in recommended equipment


### Ape Atoll Agility Course
The Ape Atoll Agility Course is an Agility training area located near Marim, available to players with level 48 Agility (cannot be boosted). Access to this course requires partial completion of Monkey Madness I, up to Chapter 2.
To use the agility course, the player has to wear either the small or medium-sized ninja monkey greegree or the Kruk monkey greegree. Attempting to complete any obstacle on the course without a ninja or Kruk greegree equipped will result in the player automatically failing the course and taking a small amount of damage. Because there is a fairy ring on the course, some players use the ring to reach Marim and deliberately fail the rope obstacle near the end of the course to quickly reach the course start point.


### Armour/Magic armour
For the most part, a mage's armour provides little to no Ranged and melee Defence bonuses, but instead serves to harness the wearer's magical abilities. Notable exceptions to this rule include splitbark, lunar, and Ahrim's armour sets, which provide a mediocre amount of melee protection, although even these are still absent of Ranged protection. Generally, the magical defence bonus of this type of equipment directly corresponds to its magic attack bonus. Most magical armours cannot be made by players.
Magic Armour sets
Magic Armour pieces
Set items
Wizard robes
Blue, Blue (gold), Blue (trimmed), Black, Black (gold), Black (trimmed)Hat, Robe Top, Boots (Blue only)
Wizards' robes are the most common robes in free-to-play. They have no requirements to wield.


### Armour/Prayer armour
Prayer armour is used to slow the rate at which Prayer points drain when praying. Unlike the other three general categories of armour, there are few items within it that can be considered uniquely Prayer-related. Many shields, magic robes, and types of metal armour can also be considered Prayer armour.
Prayer item sets
Prayer equipment
Prayer robes
Priest, Monk, Shade, Zamorak, Druid
Priest gowns and Zamorak robes give the lowest Prayer bonus, while Druid robes give a slightly higher bonus. Monk's robes give the highest Prayer bonus in Free-to-play. Monk's robes are very popular when Player killing. Prayer robes are not used often in minigames (nor are they recommended to be used in them).


### Armour/Ranged armour
This is a list of the armour that is generally worn by players who are using the Ranged skill. Ranged armour tends to have high Ranged attack bonuses and good Magic Defence bonuses. Ranged armour is usually made from animal hides, tanned dragonhide, or some other type of leather.
Ranged armour sets
Ranged armour pieces
Set items
Leather armour
Leather armour is good for beginning rangers. They are very cheap and can also be crafted.


### Artima's Crafting Supplies
Artima's Crafting Supplies is a crafting shop owned by Artima in Civitas illa Fortis, just south of the Fortis Cothon.
Stock


### Arzinian Avatar of Magic
The Arzinian Avatar of Magic is an avatar of the Arzinian Being of Bordanzan that may be fought in the Between a Rock... quest. It only appears if a player's highest combat stat is melee; if it is magic or ranged, the avatar of ranging or strength will appear instead, respectively. However, this is not guaranteed as there is an element of randomness programed into the encounter.
Its strength is based on how much gold ore a player has in their inventory. If fought with 5 or less gold ore, it will have no combat level and possess the ability to infinitely regenerate. If fought with at least 6 ores, it will be level 125, and if fought with 15 or more, it will be level 75.


### Arzinian Avatar of Strength
The Arzinian Avatar of Strength is an avatar of the Arzinian Being of Bordanzan that may be fought in the Between a Rock... quest. It only appears if a player's highest combat stat is ranged, if it is melee or magic, the avatar of magic or ranging will appear instead, respectively. However, this is not guaranteed as there is an element of randomness programed into the encounter.
Its strength is based on how much gold ore a player has in their inventory. If fought with 5 or less gold ore, it will have no combat level and possess the ability to infinitely regenerate. If fought with at least 6 ores, it will be level 125, and if fought with 15 or more, it will be level 75.


### Attack
Attack is a player's accuracy in melee combat. As a player raises their Attack level, they can deal damage more consistently as well as wield weapons of stronger materials.
Fighting accurately
In order to efficiently gain experience in the Attack skill, players must choose either the accurate or controlled   attack style. While using the accurate style, players gain an invisible +3 attack bonus and gain 4 attack xp per point of damage inflicted. While using the controlled  style, players gain an invisible +1 attack bonus (and +1 strength and +1 defence bonus) and gain 1.33 attack xp per point of damage inflicted. Attack is used to calculate the accuracy of your attacks against an enemy's defence.
Attack bonuses
Some weapons give players Attack bonuses when using certain attack types.


### Attack mix
Attack mix is a barbarian potion that boosts a player's Attack level by 12%, rounded down to the nearest level, and heals 3 Hitpoints. It can be made by adding roe or caviar to an attack potion(2), requiring level 4 Herblore and giving 8 experience. This mix can only be created after completing the Herblore part of Barbarian training with Otto Godblessed.
Drinking a sip of the potion gives the message "You drink the lumpy potion". If the player drinks all doses or empties the potion, it will become a regular empty vial.
Attack boost by level
Creation


### Attack potion
An attack potion is a potion made by using an eye of newt on a guam potion (unf), requiring 3 Herblore, yielding an attack potion(3) and 25 Herblore experience. It is the first available potion to make with the Herblore skill. A dose of attack potion provides a temporary skill boost to Attack equal to 3 + 10% of the player's current Attack level, rounded down. This is less than the super attack's boost of 5 + 15% of the player's current Attack level, rounded down.
After Barbarian Herblore Training, roe or caviar can be added to an attack potion(2), requiring 4 Herblore, yielding an attack mix and 8 Herblore experience. An attack mix has 2 doses, boosts Attack equal to 3 + 10% of the player's current Attack level, rounded down, and heals 3 Hitpoints per dose.


### Attack range
The attack range of a weapon or spell is the maximum number of squares away from a target, from which a player wielding the weapon or casting the spell may attack their target and deal damage or other effects. This is measured with Chebyshev distance, which means that the player will visually be able to fire further when attacking diagonally than cardinally, by a factor of up to 2.
Players may use a weapon's attack range to their advantage to avoid retaliation by hiding behind objects or walls - such areas are known as safespots, and this tactic is known as "safespotting", or "farcasting" when done with magic.
Melee weapons
Almost all melee weapons have an attack range of 1, but cannot perform attacks diagonally.
Halberds are special melee weapons which have an attack range of 2.


### Attack types
The attack types are the different ways in which a player or NPC may attack another player, another NPC, or a piece of interactive scenery that can be attacked. There are three Melee styles, three Ranged styles, and one Magic style. The seven types are stab, slash, crush, magic, light, standard, and heavy. Equipment gives players attack bonuses towards and defence bonuses against each of the attack styles.
The bonuses
The following are detailed descriptions of the attack bonuses:
Stab: Stab is used primarily by daggers, swords, spears, pickaxes, and rapiers. It is used as a secondary attack by longswords, maces, halberds, and scimitars.


### Baba Yaga's Magic Shop.
Baba Yaga's Magic Shop. is a shop on the Lunar Isle run by Baba Yaga, a member of the Moon Clan. Her shop—in a house that walks around on chicken legs—offers a complete selection of runes except combination runes, cosmic runes and wrath runes. Prior to completing the elite Fremennik Diary, a seal of passage is required to speak with her.
Although not shown on the minimap and world map with the Magic Shop icon, Baba Yaga's Magic Shop offers a wider selection of runes than most other magic shops, such as Aubury's Rune Shop. It is also notable for being one of the few magic shops that sells staves.
Prior to completion of the Lunar Diplomacy quest, the shop does not sell astral runes or lunar signets, and offers separate item stocks from the post-quest stock.
Stock


### Baby red dragon (Construction)
A baby red dragon can be built in the guard space of the oubliette and dungeon in a player-owned house for 150,000 coins. It requires 82 Construction to build and gives 387 experience when built.
They do not count towards a Slayer task and give no experience when killed.
Creation


### Bagged magic tree
A bagged magic tree can be bought from a Garden supplier in Falador or the Farming Guild for 50,000 coins. They can be planted in the garden of a player-owned house with a Construction level of 75, providing 223 experience to both Construction and Farming. The player must have a filled watering can in their inventory to plant it. Players can temporarily boost their construction level from 72 by using the tea obtained from teak shelves 2. This tree is only for decoration and cannot be cut for logs.
A player may consume a spicy stew (orange spice) to increase their construction level by 5 points; therefore, enabling the player to plant a bagged magic tree with 70 construction.
Products


### Balancing ledge (Barbarian Outpost Agility Course)
The balancing ledge is an Agility obstacle found within the Barbarian Outpost Agility Course. Passing the obstacle requires 35 Agility and will award 22 Agility experience.
Agility info


### Balancing ledge (Brimhaven Agility Arena)
The balancing ledge is an Agility obstacle found within the Brimhaven Agility Arena. Failing to cross will cause the player to fall and take damage; they will need to go up a nearby climbing rope to get back onto the course.
The amount of damage dealt by the fall is based on the player's current health, according to the formula below.
⌊Hitpoints⋅5100⌋+2
Agility info


### Balancing ledge (Yanille Agility Dungeon)
The Balancing ledge is an Agility shortcut. An Agility level of 40 is required to use the shortcut. It is the first obstacle into the Yanille Agility Dungeon, giving access to the Chaos druid warriors. Failing drops the player into a pit of poison spiders.
Some people use the balancing ledge as a low-intensity way to train Agility, as with the right camera placement it is possible to keep the mouse cursor in one spot and continuously click. Players can gain up to 13,200 experience per hour.
Agility info
Success chance
The chance to successfully walk across the balancing edge ranges from around 70% at level 40 Agility, up to a 100% success rate at level 66.


### Balancing rope (Brimhaven Agility Arena)
The balancing rope is an Agility obstacle found within the Brimhaven Agility Arena. Failing to cross will cause the player to fall and take damage; they will need to go up a nearby climbing rope to get back onto the course.
Agility info


### Balancing rope (Gnome Stronghold Agility Course)
The balancing rope is an Agility obstacle found within the Gnome Stronghold Agility Course. An Agility level of one is required to pass the obstacle, which will then grant the player 10 Agility experience. It is not possible to fail this obstacle.
Agility info


### Banana tree (Farming)
Banana trees are Farming plants grown at level 33 Farming. A banana tree is grown by planting a banana tree seed in a filled plant pot. A gardening trowel is needed to plant the seed, by using the seed with the filled plant pot. It must then be watered using a filled watering can, turning it into a banana seedling (w). After 5 minutes or less, the planted seed will become a banana sapling and can then be planted in an empty fruit tree patch. Compost or Super Compost may be added prior to planting, and once planted (using a spade and trowel), the nearby farmer may be paid to watch over the tree. Payment is 4 baskets of apples (can be noted). If this tree becomes diseased, using secateurs or magic secateurs on it to prune the diseased leaves will bring it back to a healthy state.


### Banner (Construction)
A banner is a wieldable item made on the banner easel, in a player-owned workshop. It may be made in any player's house and requires 48 Crafting, 1 regular plank, and 1 bolt of cloth. Prior to creating a banner, the player must have a crest assigned by Sir Renitee, the herald on the 1st floor of the White Knights' Castle. The first crest assignment is random and free, however, the player may choose their own crest by paying the herald 5,000 coins, although most of the crests have requirements to obtain.
Saradomin and Zamorak heraldic banners offer protection for their respective gods in the God Wars Dungeon.
List of banners


### Bar (Shayzien Agility Course)
The bar is an Agility obstacle found within the Shayzien Agility Course, granting the player 7 Agility experience.
Agility info


### Barbarian Outpost Agility Course
The Barbarian Outpost Agility Course is an Agility training area located in the Barbarian Outpost, available to players with level 35 Agility. Access to this course requires completion of the Alfred Grimhand's Barcrawl miniquest.
The Agility course rewards 153.3 Agility experience and 41.3 Strength experience per completed lap. With an average time of 32 seconds per lap (49 ticks if using additional clicks for tick-perfect), it is possible to get upwards of 18,000 Agility experience per hour from this course. At lower Agility levels expect to get around 11,000–14,000 Agility experience per hour, depending on concentration levels. In addition to experience, players will also receive marks of grace on this course.


### Basalt rocks (mining)
Basalt rocks containing Basalt can be found in the Salt Mine under Weiss. Basalt rocks can be mined with a Mining level of 72 and higher. They yield Basalt which may be combined with various amounts of Te, Efh, and Urt salts to make either Icy Basalt or Stony Basalt teleportation rocks after the completion of the Making Friends With My Arm quest. Basalt rocks have a 1/7 chance of being depleted each time they are mined.
Locations
Mining info


### Beam (Shayzien Agility Course)
The beams are Agility obstacles found within the Shayzien Agility Course. An Agility level of 45 is required to pass the obstacle, which will then grant the player 23 Agility experience. A crossbow and a mithril grapple is needed to pass these obstacles.
Agility info


### Beehive (Construction)
Beehives can be built in the garden (hotspots big plant space 1 and big plant space 2) or the formal garden (hotspots big plant, big plant 2) of a player-owned house. It requires level 1 Construction to build alongside 10 sturdy beehive parts. Removing the beehive will return all ten parts back to the player.
Beehives have a "Release-bees" option that will release agitated bees, who will simply roam around the player-owned house.
Players cannot obtain a bucket of wax from these beehives.
Creation


### Betty's Magic Emporium.
Betty's Magic Emporium is located in Port Sarim and owned by Betty. Free players must visit this store to buy an eye of newt for the Witch's Potion quest.
Stock


### Black chinchompa (Hunter)
The black chinchompa is a chinchompa that players can capture with the Hunter skill at level 73 or above and the completion of Eagles' Peak, granting 315 Hunter experience.
Location
Money making
The following money making guide is available for Black chinchompa (Hunter):
Hunter info
Hunting technique
The hunting technique is the same as for other chinchompas. Players must bring a box trap for each trap they plan to set up. Players can use the same box trap over and over to catch multiple creatures.
Black chinchompas can be attacked, but they will explode upon being killed, harming the player if they are standing right next to it for 2 damage. Accidental misclicks may be avoided by wielding a bow with no arrows or adjusting NPC attack options to right-click attack only.


### Black salamander (Hunter)
The black salamander is a salamander that players can capture with the Hunter skill at level 67 or above, granting 319.2 Hunter experience.
Location
Hunter info
The chance of a successful catch is approximately 56% beginning at level 67, and 83% at level 99.
Hunting technique
The hunting technique is the same as for other salamanders. Players must bring a rope and small fishing net for each net trap they plan to set up. Clicking on a young tree will set the trap. Players can use the same rope and net over and over to catch multiple creatures.
Harralander tar may be used to bait the trap and a lit torch may be used on it to reduce the player's scent, slightly increasing chances (+5% together) of catching a salamander.


### Blade (Brimhaven Agility Arena)
The blade is an Agility obstacle found within the Brimhaven Agility Arena. It consists of a blade coming out of the floor and back down in a cycle. It is the only obstacle in the Agility Arena that requires players to time movement correctly, regardless of Agility level. Crossing the blade will not award any Agility experience.
Players can take damage when standing or walking on the same tile as the incoming blade, even at 99 Agility. The message You were hit by the saw blade! will be displayed if this occurs. The amount of damage is based on the player's current health, according to the formula below.
⌊Hitpoints⋅5100⌋+2
Agility info


### Blue crab (Hunter)
Blue crabs can be caught by crab trapping on The Great Conch. In order to catch the crabs, a crab trap must first be built over an empty hole and baited with fish offcuts. Catching a blue crab awards 136 Hunter experience. The crab can then either be prepared with a knife to produce raw blue crab meat, which can then be cooked into blue crab meat, or the crab can be processed with a pestle and mortar to produce crab paste, a Herblore secondary used in the creation of Anti-odour salt and Super hunter potions.
Location
Hunter info


### Boneyard Hunter area
The Boneyard Hunter area is located slightly south-east of the Boneyard in the Wilderness. Players with 67 Hunter can catch black salamanders here. Since this Hunter area is located in the Wilderness, an additional trap can be set in the area.
Transportation
Burning amulet teleport to the Chaos Temple and run north-east from there.
Teleport to the level 19 Wilderness Obelisk.
Carrallanger Teleport (tablet) and run east from there.
Games necklace teleport to the Corporeal Beast lair and run east.
Enter the Wilderness from Varrock and run north-east.
Hunter creatures
The following Hunter creature is found in this area:
To trap black salamanders, use a small fishing net and rope on a young tree.


### Bottle of ogre prayer potion
A bottle of ogre prayer potion is an alcoholic drink acquired by prying open a sealed crate in Gu'tanoth Bay just south-east of Yanille. Doing so requires a crowbar in the inventory, which in turn requires completion of Prying Times to obtain.
Drinking the bottle grants 75 Sailing experience, and will deal damage equal to half the player's maximum hitpoints, as well as restore prayer points equal to a dose of prayer potion. This bottle can kill the player if their health is too low.
Location
Transcript


### Bounty Hunter Shop (Deadman Mode)
The Bounty Hunter Shop is a store run by the Emblem Trader at the Grand Exchange, which is accessible on both permanent and seasonal Deadman Mode worlds.
Archaic emblems can be handed in at the Emblem Trader in exchange for store credit, which can spent on a wide variety of supplies and ornaments. Participating in Wilderness Slayer yields a chance of receiving a tier 1 emblem as an uncommon drop from the assigned monsters, while tier 5 emblems can be received from any NPC with a combat level of 100 or higher at a rate of 1/300.
During the Deadman: Annihilation game mode, tier 1 and tier 5 archaic emblems may be exchanged at the Emblem Trader for 100,000 and 1,500,000 archaic points respectively. On the permanent Deadman world, they are worth 50,000 and 750,000 points.


### Bounty Hunter Shop (historical)
The Bounty Hunter Shop was a store run by the Emblem Trader, located north of the Edgeville bank. Here, players could purchase items with their accumulated points obtained from playing Bounty Hunter.
On members' worlds, the Emblem Trader now claims he hurt his back lifting bounty crates and can't do it anymore, thus retiring his shop.
New stock
The new stock was accessible from the release of the Bounty Hunter Rework update on 7 November 2019, until its removal in an update released on 13 January 2021.
Old stock
The old stock was available from the activity's launch on 18 September 2014 until the Bounty Hunter Rework Beta update on 17 October 2019. Afterwards, it was only accessible if players had Bounty Hunter points prior to 17 October 2019 or had archaic emblems to exchange.


### Bounty Hunter Store
The Bounty Hunter Store is a store run by the Emblem Trader, located in Daimon's Crater. Here, players can purchase items with their accumulated points obtained from playing Bounty Hunter.
Historically, it was a store run by the Emblem Trader in Edgeville, near the bank. On members' worlds, the Emblem Trader now claims that it is too dangerous to carry rewards out there, and that you must meet him in Daimon's Crater to buy rewards.
Stock (Daimon's Crater)
All purchases are made in Bounty Hunter Points. The majority of the rewards are untradeable, with the exception of Blighted supplies. Many of the weapons and equipment can ONLY be used within the minigame. Note that Ancient Warrior Armour can only be sold back to the BH shop if uncharged, in the as-bought form (not corrupted).


### Brimhaven Agility Arena
The Brimhaven Agility Course is an Agility-training minigame located beneath Brimhaven, this course has no requirements except for the entrance fee. On this course, it is possible to get upwards of 67,000 Agility experience per hour at level 99 Agility (due to no longer failing any obstacles at 99 Agility). At lower Agility levels expect to get around 50,000–60,000 Agility experience per hour, depending on Agility and concentration levels.
Introduction
The Brimhaven Agility Arena is very different to other Agility courses. Instead of running laps around obstacle courses, the Brimhaven Agility Arena sets players the objective to tag ticket dispensers for Agility XP, Agility arena tickets, and Brimhaven vouchers.


### Brimhaven Agility Arena Ticket Exchange
The Brimhaven Agility Arena Ticket Exchange is the former rewards shop for the Brimhaven Agility Arena minigame, accessed by talking to Pirate Jackie the Fruit at the minigame's entrance. At the ticket exchange, players could exchange the discontinued Agility arena tickets earned in the minigame for Agility experience, various items, and a recolour for the graceful outfit.
The store was replaced by the Agility Arena Store, however it remains accessible to players who still have the historical Agility arena tickets to redeem for rewards.
Store contents
Experience
Note: The experience reward from the tickets is increased by 5 per ticket for each Agility level above 40.


### Cable (Dorgesh-Kaan Agility Course)
The cable is an Agility obstacle found within the Dorgesh-Kaan Agility Course. An Agility level of 70 is required to pass the obstacle.
Agility info


### Cactus (Farming)
Cactus is a plant in the Farming skill. Level 55 farmers may grow a cactus by planting a cactus seed in a cactus patch using a seed dibber. The nearby farmer will watch over a growing cactus in exchange for 6 cadava berries (which may be noted).
A cactus takes 9 hours and 20 minutes to mature. Once mature, the cactus produces a minimum of 3 cactus spines at a time. Once any of the cactus spines have been picked, the cactus will slowly produce more until all 3 are available again. It takes around 20 minutes for another cactus spine to grow.
Planting a cactus seed in a cactus patch grants 66.5 Farming experience. Checking the health of a cactus grants 374 Farming experience. Harvesting a cactus spine grants 25 Farming experience.
Farming info
Growth stages


### Calculator:Agility
General notes
Importing your Old School RuneScape stats will use your experience by default instead of your level for greater accuracy.
Setting numbers greater than 99 with the Level selection will internally work like experience.
If you find an issue, please leave comments on calculator talk page or join our Discord.
This is still a work in progress, if an item has an XP value of 1, the correct experience value is more than likely missing.
Assumptions
The bonus experience gained at the Agility Pyramid is only calculated for the current level, not the levels leading up to the goal experience/level. This is to be worked on soon.
The experience gained at the Werewolf Skullball course is assumed that the player completes the run below 4 minutes to get the full experience drop.


### Calculator:Agility/Agility arena tickets
Calculate the experience from handing in Agility arena ticket (discontinued)s at the Brimhaven Agility Arena Ticket Exchange after talking to Pirate Jackie the Fruit at the Brimhaven Agility Arena. The experience reward increases by 5 per ticket for each Agility level above 40.
template = Calculator:Agility/Agility arena tickets/Template
form = simplecalc
result = simpleresult
param = playername|Player Name||hs|Agility_lvl,17,1
param = Agility_lvl|Agility level|1|int|1-99


### Calculator:Crafting/Battlestaves
The tables below assume that for the High Level Alchemy spell, the required nature runes are bought, and a fire staff is used.
The tables below assume that for the Charge Water Orb spell, the Charge Earth Orb spell, the Charge Air Orb spell, and the Charge Fire Orb spell, the required cosmic runes are bought, and elemental staves are used.
Elemental battlestaves high alchs for 9,300 coins.
Zaff's Superior Staffs! is a shop based in west Varrock that sells a limited amount of battlestaves for 7,000 coins each. The amount may be increased by completing the Varrock Diary.
Buying powered orb and battlestaff
Buying powered orb and Zaff's battlestaff
Buying unpowered orbs and battlestaff
Buying unpowered orb and Zaff's battlestaff


### Calculator:Crafting/Gem cutting
The table below lists the profit/loss made from cutting gems, as well as the cost/xp of each.
Gem Cutting


### Calculator:Crafting/Glass
This calculator shows the cost to craft glass items, using Superglass Make vs buying molten glass from the Grand Exchange.
Notes:
26.1 (average) molten glass are created per spell cast (3 giant seaweed + 18 buckets of sand + 2 astral runes)
10 Crafting exp included per bucket of sand used
Dropped molten glass is not included, as it's not worth the time to pick it up
Fire and Air rune cost is not considered - options include; smoke battlestaff, tome of fire etc.
Superglass profit/loss includes the cost of Astral runes
Does NOT include magic exp
Cost/XP assumes the product sells at GE value (often they don't)


### Calculator:Crafting/Jewellery
The table below lists the profit (or loss) made from crafting gold and silver bars and optionally adding a cut gem into jewellery and selling it on the Grand Exchange. Before crafting these items, check the price of the enchanted version before crafting the mundane version. If the unenchanted piece has a higher value than the enchanted version, you should calculate with the price of the enchanted item. See the enchant jewellery calculator for more information about the enchanted items.
Before crafting large quantities of these items, you should check if there is demand for the item by crafting and selling a small quantity of the specific item. Or you can consult the amount traded graphic of the specific item on the official RuneScape website.


### Calculator:Crafting/Tanning hides
Tanning hides
Various animal hides can be brought to a tanner in order to make leather, which then can be used in the Crafting skill. Tanners charge you a fee for tanning the hides brought to them. This information is included in the calculations. You can also use the lunar spell Tan Leather to tan up to 5 hides per cast without having to leave the bank, also granting 87 magic experience.
Canifis tanner
A separate calculation is done for Sbott, the tanner in Canifis, who charges higher fees than regular tanners. When tanning it is helpful at times to use energy potions to maximise profits.
Profit table


### Calculator:Crafting/Untanned hides
This calculator estimates the cost to craft ranging armour using untanned hides by way of the Tanner and Tan Leather spell. Thread costs are not included in calculations.
Untanned hides
Notes on High Level Alchemy:
It is assumed that a fire rune-supplying staff is equipped.
High Alchemy information is only included on items that are commonly high alchemised.
The Cost/XP includes the Magic experience gained from casting the spell.
Leather
Snakeskin
All values are assuming the use of regular snake hides rather than swamp snake hides.
Green dragonhide
Blue dragonhide
Red dragonhide
Black dragonhide


### Calculator:Fishing/Barbarian fishing
This calculator determines expected XP and success rates per hour when heavy rod fishing. It assumes:
Time to drop a full inventory of fish is not factored in to calculations
When performing three tick methods you are performing your chosen method tick perfectly
All chance calculations are rounded down and based on source from Jagex Moderators
template = Calculator:Fishing/Barbarian fishing/Template
form = BarbFishingCalcForm
result = BarbFishingResults
param = playername|Player name||hs|agilityLevel,17,1;fishingLevel,11,1;strengthLevel,3,1;
param = agilityLevel|Agility Level|1|int|1-99
param = fishingLevel|Fishing Level|1|int|1-99
param = strengthLevel|Strength Level|1|int|1-99
param = hasAngler|Using Angler's Outfit?|false|toggleswitch||anglerParts
param = anglerParts|Angler's Outfit Par...


### Calculator:Magic/Enchant bolts
The bolt enchantment calculator calculates the profit or loss of enchanting bolts with the Enchant Crossbow Bolt spells.
Assumptions:
All runes are bought via the Grand Exchange for the guide price.
All (gem-tipped) bolts are bought via the Grand Exchange for the guide price.
The maximum of 10 bolts are enchanted with each spell - enchanting less than 10 uses the same number of runes, so is less efficient.
The appropriate elemental rune-supplying staff is used where possible.
Note - Jade bolts and Jade bolts (e) are untradeable - calculates cost of runes only.


### Calculator:Magic/Enchant jewellery
The jewellery enchantment calculator calculates the profit or loss of enchanting jewellery with the one of the six enchantment spells.
This calculator assumes that:
All runes are bought via the Grand Exchange for the guide price.
All unenchanted jewellery are bought from the Grand Exchange at guide prices.
The appropriate elemental rune-supplying staff is used where possible.
Do note that enchanting jewellery could result in a loss, while crafting the mundane jewellery and then enchanting it could still generate a profit. For information about crafting, consult the crafting jewellery page.
Before enchanting items at large scale, start small and see if you can earn a profit.


### Calculator:Magic/Making tablets
This calculator estimates the profit of making magic tablets using runes at a lectern in a player-owned house.
Making magic tablets
Magic tablets are created from soft clay using a lectern in a player-owned house. A player brings the runes for the spell (elemental staves can be used) and the soft clay to the appropriate lectern in their own or another player's house. By clicking on the lectern an interface will appear showing the magic tablets that can be constructed at that lectern. After selecting a spell, the clay changes into a stackable magic tablet and the magic tablet selection window disappears.
Making magic tablets requires that the player has the appropriate Magic level.
Tablets take 4 seconds each to make.


### Calculator:Prayer/Bones
Calculator
Chaos Altar
The Chaos Altar calculations are an approximation. The Chaos Altar provides Prayer XP per bone equal to the Gilded Altar, however it has a 50% chance to not consume the bone when offered. This results in an average increase of 100% XP, which when multiplied with the experience multiplier of 3.5 the Chaos Altar results in an average of 700% experience per bone.


### Camphor tree (Farming)
Camphor trees are trees that may be grown with the Farming skill. Level 66 farmers may grow a camphor tree by planting a camphor sapling in a hardwood tree patch using a spade. When planted, the nearby farmer will watch over a growing camphor tree in exchange for 10 white berries, which may be noted.
A camphor tree sapling will take 8 hardwood growth ticks (at most 5,120 minutes or approximately 3 days, 13 hours, and 20 minutes) to grow to maturity. Once mature, the tree grows into a camphor tree which can be harvested for camphor logs.
Planting a camphor sapling in a hardwood tree patch grants 88 Farming experience. Checking the health of an camphor tree grants 17,840 Farming experience.


### Candles (Construction)
The candles can be built in the lighting space of the dungeon, oubliette, and treasure Room in a player-owned house. It requires 72 Construction to build and gives 243 experience when built. The player must have a hammer and a saw in their inventory to build it.
Creation


### Canifis Hunter area
The Canifis Hunter area is located south-east of Canifis and south of the Werewolf Agility Course. Players with 29 Hunter can catch swamp lizards here via net trapping, granting 152 experience each.
Transportation
From Canifis, start walking north-east and then south.
Players can use the fairy ring code ALQ and walk south-west to get to this area.
Hunter creatures
To trap swamp lizards, use a small fishing net and rope on a young tree. Guam tar may be used to bait the trap and a lit torch may be used on it to reduce the player's scent, slightly increasing chances of catching a swamp lizard.
Monsters
The following attackable monsters are located in this area, however some hunting spots are free of monsters that will pose a threat to the player.


### Carefree Crafting Stall
The Carefree Crafting Stall is a Crafting stall run by Nolar, found on the eastern ground floor of Keldagrim Palace. It can be found between Hirko's crossbow stall and Green Gemstone Gems. The shop is run by Nolar, a dwarf craftsman  and open supporter of The White Chisel, an industrial company and member of the Keldagrim Consortium. The Carefree Crafting Stall stocks buyable Crafting gear.
Stock


### Chaos altar (Prayer)
Chaos altars are altars devoted to Zamorak found in several Chaos Temples and other eerie locations across Gielinor. You can recharge your prayer points at these altars.
Praying at the chaos altar in the Yanille Agility dungeon opens a trapdoor, damaging the player and dropping them to the lower level of the dungeon where poison spiders reside.
The Chaos altar in the deep wilderness can be used by members for faster prayer training, as explained here and here.
Locations
Transcript


### Chimney (Prifddinas Agility Course)
The chimney is an Agility obstacle found within the Prifddinas Agility Course. An Agility level of 75 is required to successfully pass the obstacle, which will grant the player 28.1 Agility experience. This obstacle can be failed.
Agility info


### Chinchompa (Hunter)
The chinchompa is a rodent that players can capture with the Hunter skill at level 53 or above and the completion of Eagles' Peak, granting 198.4 Hunter experience. Chinchompas may be assigned as a hunters' rumour task by Guild Hunters Gilman, Cervus, Aco, or Teco.
Catching a chinchompa in the Kourend Woodland is a medium Kourend & Kebos Diary task.
Location
Hunter info
Hunting technique
The hunting technique is the same as for other chinchompas. Players must bring a box trap for each trap they plan to set up. Players can use the same box trap over and over to catch multiple creatures.
Chinchompas can be attacked, but they will explode upon being killed, harming the player if they are standing right next to it for 2 damage.


### Climbing rocks (Agility Pyramid)
The climbing rocks are an optional Agility obstacle found within the Agility Pyramid. An Agility level of 30 is required to pass the obstacle, but will not grant any experience. This obstacle is used to obtain the Pyramid Top.
Agility info


### Cogs (Piscatoris Fishing Colony)
Cogs are pieces of scenery found in the Piscatoris Fishing Colony and the Motherlode Mine.
Locations


### Colossal Wyrm Agility Course
The Colossal Wyrm Agility Course is an Agility course found in the Avium Savannah which involves running around the scaffolding that surrounds the Colossal Wyrm Remains. Before attempting the course, players must first speak to Worm Tongue, an anteater, about helping him gather termites around the scaffolding in order to preserve the wyrm's remains.
There are two courses available to players beginning at 50 Agility for the basic course, and 62 Agility for the advanced course. Both are lower intensity courses than most other agility courses, with fewer obstacles each with longer animations, averaging about 1 minute per lap.


### Construction
Construction is a members-only skill that allows players to build their own houses and provide furniture for them. To begin Construction, players must buy a house from one of the estate agents. A starter house will cost 1,000 coins, and will be in Rimmington. A level 40 Magic spell can then be used to teleport to the house, or a house tablet can be used. Alternatively players can walk to Rimmington, where there is a portal ( icon on the map) that will teleport players to their house.
The house starts off with only a parlour and garden, but furniture and additional rooms can be built. To build, go to the options menu, select house options, and set the building mode mode to on. Players will then see what looks like ghost-like hotspots where new objects can be built.


### Construction supplies
Construction supplies is a Construction supplies store found at the sawmills at the Lumberyard, in the Woodcutting Guild, north-east Prifddinas, and in the center of Auburnvale. It is run by the Sawmill operators at each location. The shop stocks several items that can be used for creating furniture, and is one of the only place to get bolts of cloth without buying them from other players.
Stock
If there are less than 50 Bolts of cloth in stock, 50 is added to the store's stock when the interface is reopened. The same is true for Bronze nails, but with a threshold of 100 stock instead of 50.


### Cooking
Cooking is a skill that allows raw food to be made edible, healing hitpoints when eaten. To do this, the player uses a raw, cookable food on a range or fire.
Depending on the player's Cooking level, food will sometimes burn, becoming unusable. Ranges burn food less often than fires at the same level, and some foods can only be cooked on ranges. Some ranges, such as the one in the Lumbridge Castle or in the Hosidius Kitchen, burn food less often than a normal range.
Cooking goes hand-in-hand with the Fishing skill as the player can cook the fish they obtain. If no range is nearby, having an axe and tinderbox on hand can allow the player to cut down a tree and make a fire to cook the fish on.


### Cooking apple
Cooking apples are primarily used as an ingredient to make apple pies. They can be obtained from the Cooks' Guild, Culinaromancer's Chest, Logava Gricoller's Cooking Supplies, or alternatively, harvested from an apple tree grown from an apple tree seed in a fruit tree patch by a player with a Farming level of 27.
Baskets of apples (which contain 5 apples each) can be used in the Farming skill to pay farmers to watch planted trees. One basket is needed to watch willows and strawberries, while four baskets are needed to watch a banana tree.
Products
Item sources
Spawns


### Cooking shops
Cooking shops are a type of store throughout Gielinor. The stores are represented by a  icon. Cooking shops sell utensils and food items used for Cooking. There are 5 cooking shops in Old School RuneScape.
Locations


### Cooking/Burn level
These tables show the Cooking level required for the raw food item to stop burning. These values do not account for wearing the cooking cape, which guarantees food will never burn while wearing it. An empty value with a dash that is not N/A means that the food can still be burned on that cooking source.
Food types
Affected by cooking gauntlets
Affected by Lumbridge Castle range
Meats
Baked goods
Other foods
Ruins of Camdozaal fish
Gnome cooking
Raids food
Obtaining burnt food items
If one's Cooking level is too high to obtain a particular burnt food, it is possible to temporarily lower it by making use of the chill effect or drinking Chilhuac red. Ghommal's hilt is particularly useful for this, as it can be used to teleport to the entrance of God Wars Dungeon.


### Corrupt Fishing Spot
The fishing spot is a fishing pool located in the resource rooms of the Corrupted Gauntlet. Four raw paddlefish can be collected from each fishing spot.
Fishing info
Drop rates are estimated based on 982,938 samples from the Drop Rate Project, unless otherwise cited.


### Cotton (Farming)
Cotton is a plant that can be grown with level 71 Farming in a Hops patch. Cotton plants yield Cotton bolls when harvested. These cotton bolls can be spun into cotton yarn, which is used to make Haemostatic dressing and bolts of cotton. A nearby gardener will watch over growing a cotton plant for 6 hemp.
Farming info
Average harvest yield
Each time a boll of cotton is picked from a fully grown plant, one of its harvest lives risks being expended in the process. The chance to successfully harvest a cotton boll without losing a harvest life is not known. The average harvest yield is about 15.
Growth stages


### Crafting
Crafting is a skill that allows players to create items such as jewellery, pottery, and armour for use or for trade.
The Crafting Guild is located north-west of Rimmington and can be entered at level 40 Crafting while wearing a brown apron.
Spinning
Spinning is the process of turning raw materials such as wool into balls of wool, or flax into bow strings, by using a spinning wheel. A popular and convenient spinning wheel is located below the bank in Lumbridge Castle.
Weaving
Weaving is a similar process to spinning, taking various raw materials and making a finished, usable product. Instead of a spinning wheel, weaving uses a loom to process the materials.


### Crafting Guild
The Crafting Guild is located south-west of Falador and north of Rimmington. It provides top-notch workshops for accomplished crafters. A Crafting level of 40 is required to enter the guild as well as wearing one of the following:
A brown or golden apron
A Crafting cape
A Max cape or any of its variants
These items are only required to enter through the door. Once inside, they are not required at all.
The Crafting Guild was originally available only to members, but was opened to free-to-play after a few months, although the bank chest and the bank deposit box remained members-only.
Transportation
In addition to walking to the guild, players may use the following transportation methods:
A skills necklace, crafting cape or Max cape can be used to teleport to the Crafting Guild.


### Crafting Guild mine
The Crafting Guild mine is a mine accessible only to players who can gain entry to the Crafting Guild. In order to access the guild, players must have at least 40 Crafting and wear either a brown or golden apron, or a Crafting or Max cape.
The nearest bank and furnace are in Falador. Members with level 26 Agility can take a shortcut tunnel under the city wall and go up the west side of the moat. Members who own a crafting cape or have completed at least the hard Falador Diary can access a bank chest and bank deposit box next to the mine, allowing them to bank ore in the guild.


### Crafting shops
A Crafting shop is a type of store throughout Gielinor. The stores are represented by a  Icon. Crafting shops sell items used in Crafting. There are 11 Crafting shops in Old School RuneScape.
Locations


### Crafting stall
A crafting stall is a type of stall that can be stolen from at level 5 Thieving, granting 20 Thieving experience. They contain chisels, ring moulds, and other Crafting materials. Jamila's Craft Stall in Sophanem cannot be stolen from.
In Marim, it is possible to steal from the crafting stall while in line of sight of the shop owner. Furthermore, after stealing from the store, the shop owner will still trade with the player, instead of calling for guards. Neither statement is true for the stall in Keldagrim.
Locations
Thieving
Thieving chance
Thieving info
Drop rates are estimated based on 4,105 samples from the Drop Rate Project, unless otherwise cited.


### Crumbling wall (Barbarian Outpost Agility Course)
The crumbling wall is an Agility obstacle found within the Barbarian Outpost Agility Course. Passing the obstacle requires 35 Agility and will award 13.7 Agility experience.
Agility info


### Crusher (Penguin Agility Course)
The crusher is the first Agility obstacle found within the Penguin Agility Course. An Agility level of 30 is required to pass the obstacle. Failure to pass will cause the player to receive damage and be pushed a tile over.
Agility info


### Damage per second/Magic
This article is about calculating magic damage output, not to be confused with the Equipment stat Magic Damage.
Magic damage is affected by the spell used, equipment, prayer, skill boosts and the monster being attacked.
There are various methods by which players can increase their potential Magic damage. The effects of most equipped items can be seen in the stats window (labelled as Magic: +x and Magic damage: +x%).
Calculating your magic damage output
Step one: Calculate the maximum hit
Maximum hit is affected only by damage boosting equipment and the base max hit of the spell used.
See maximum magic hit for the information on calculating the maximum hit for a specific setup.


### Dark fishing bait
Dark fishing bait is dropped by various monsters found in the Wilderness. It is needed as bait for dark crabs, along with a lobster pot. A minimum of 85 Fishing is required to use this bait.
Each catch uses up one piece of bait, although since dark crabs can only be found in the Wilderness, it is only recommended to bring enough for just an inventory, unless the player is using Piles to note them.
Item sources
Spawns


### Dark hole (Prifddinas Agility Course)
The dark hole is an Agility obstacle found within the Prifddinas Agility Course. There is no agility requirement to pass this obstacle.
Agility info


### Defence mix
Defence mix is a barbarian potion that boosts a player's Defence level and heals 6 Hitpoints. It is made by adding caviar to a defence potion(2), requiring level 33 Herblore and giving 25 experience. This mix can only be created after completing the Herblore part of Barbarian training with Otto Godblessed.
Drinking a sip of the potion gives the message "You drink the lumpy potion". If the player drinks all doses or empties the potion, it will become a regular empty vial.
Effects
Defence boost is calculated with: ⌊DefenceLevel×110⌋+3
Creation


### Defence potion
A Defence potion is a potion made by using white berries on a ranarr potion (unf), requiring 30 Herblore, yielding a Defence potion(3) and 75 Herblore experience. A dose of Defence potion provides a temporary skill boost to Defence equal to 3 + 10% of the player's current Defence level, rounded down. This is less than the super Defence's boost of 5 + 15% of the player's current Defence level, rounded down.
After Barbarian Herblore Training, caviar can be added to a Defence potion(2), requiring 33 Herblore, yielding a Defence mix and 25 Herblore experience. A Defence mix has 2 doses, boosts Defence equal to 3 + 10% of the player's current Defence level, rounded down, and heals 6 Hitpoints.
A Defence potion(3) can be purchased from the Warrior Guild Potion Shop for 144 coins.


### Desert Mining Camp
The Desert Mining Camp is a slave camp located south of Al Kharid in the Kharidian Desert. It features prominently in The Tourist Trap quest.
Run by Captain Siad, prisoners from Al Kharid are sent to the mining camp to serve out their sentences in the mines.
Transportation
The camp can be reached by walking south from Shantay Pass.
Alternative routes to the camp include:
Having a house in Pollnivneach and teleporting to it and walking west to the camp.
Using a fairy ring with the code: BIQ and running south-east.
Using a magic carpet to fly to Pollnivneach and walking west to the camp.
Using a Pharaoh's sceptre to teleport to the Ancient Pyramid and walking north to the camp.
Using a Camulet and go north past the Bandit Camp, then east to the camp.


### Disease (Farming)
Disease is a condition that can afflict most crops grown through the Farming skill.
When a healthy crop ends a growth cycle, there is a chance it may become diseased. While diseased, the crop stops growing and does not advance to the next stage. Crops do not recover from disease on their own, and may die at the end of the diseased cycle if left uncured. The cycle length of a diseased crop will tend to become one tier slower than if it were healthy, using the next slowest growth tick than typical for the crop. Dead crops yield no experience and require use of a spade to dig up their remains before planting another crop in the patch.


### Divine magic potion
The divine magic potion is a stat-boosting potion that increases the player's Magic level by 4 for 5 minutes. During these 5 minutes, the player's Magic level will not drain below the maximum boost of the potion. Although natural stat drain is disabled, a player's stats can still be decreased or increased by the use of other spells and potions.
Once the 5 minutes are over, any stats normally boosted by the potion will be reduced back to their base level; Preserve does not affect the duration of the potion. Drinking this potion will also damage the player by 10 Hitpoints. Trying to drink the potion with less than 11 Hitpoints will instead prompt the message: You need more than 10 hitpoints to survive the power of a divine potion.


### Divine super attack potion
The divine super attack potion is a stat-boosting potion that increases the player's Attack level by 5 + 15% of the player's Attack level for 5 minutes. During these 5 minutes, the player's Attack level will not drain below the maximum boost of the potion. Although natural stat drain is disabled, a player's stats can still be decreased or increased by the use of other spells and potions.
Once the 5 minutes are over, any stats normally boosted by the potion will be reduced back to their base level; Preserve does not affect the duration of the potion. Drinking this potion will also damage the player by 10 Hitpoints. Trying to drink the potion with fewer than 11 Hitpoints will instead prompt the message: You need more than 10 hitpoints to survive the power of a divine potion.


### Divine super defence potion
A divine super defence potion is a stat-boosting potion that increases the player's Defence level by 5 + 15% of the player's Defence level for 5 minutes. During these 5 minutes, the player's Defence level will not drain below the maximum boost of the potion. Although natural stat drain is disabled, the player's stats can still be decreased or increased by the use of other spells and potions.
Once the 5 minutes are over, any stats normally boosted by the potion will be reduced back to their base level; Preserve does not affect the duration of the potion. Drinking this potion will also damage the player by 10 Hitpoints. Trying to drink the potion with less than 11 Hitpoints will instead prompt the message: You need more than 10 hitpoints to survive the power of a divine potion.


### Divine super strength potion
The divine super strength potion is a stat-boosting potion that increases the player's Strength level by 5 + 15% of the player's Strength level for 5 minutes. During these 5 minutes, the player's Strength level will not drain below the maximum boost of the potion. Although natural stat drain is disabled, a player's stats can still be decreased or increased by the use of other spells and potions.
Once the 5 minutes are over, any stats normally boosted by the potion will be reduced back to their base level; Preserve does not affect the duration of the potion. Drinking this potion will also damage the player by 10 Hitpoints. Trying to drink the potion with less than 11 Hitpoints will instead prompt the message: You need more than 10 hitpoints to survive the power of a divine potion.


### Dommik's Crafting Store.
Dommik's Crafting Store is a Crafting supplies store owned by Dommik located in north-eastern Al Kharid. It is a convenient place to buy Crafting supplies due to its close proximity to a bank and a tanner.
Dommik's Crafting Store has an identical stock to that of Rommik's Crafty Supplies in Rimmington.
Stock


### Door (Magic axe hut)
The door is the entrance to the Magic axe hut located in the Wilderness. A lockpick and level 23 Thieving are required to unlock the door.
Thieving info


### Doorway (Agility Pyramid)
The doorway is the final Agility obstacle found within the Agility Pyramid. An Agility level of 30 is required to pass the obstacle, which will then grant the player 300+Agility level×8 Agility experience.
Agility info


### Dorgesh-Kaan Agility Course
The Dorgesh-Kaan Agility Course is an Agility training area located in Dorgesh-Kaan, available to players with level 70 Agility. Completion of the quest Death to the Dorgeshuun is also required. Optionally, level 70 Strength and Ranged (in addition to 70 Agility), are required to traverse the grapple route, which gives experience in Agility, Strength and Ranged. To train at the Agility course, the player also has to bring a light source.
The Agility course rewards 2,750 Agility experience per completed lap. With an average time of 156 seconds per lap, it is possible to get upwards of 63,000 Agility experience per hour from this course. At lower Agility levels expect to get around 50,000–60,000 Agility experience per hour, depending on concentration levels.


### Dragon hunter crossbow (b)
The dragon hunter crossbow (b) is a cosmetic variant of the dragon hunter crossbow in black. It can be created by using kbd heads on the crossbow, after claiming the hard tier rewards from the Combat Achievements system via Ghommal by the Warriors' Guild entrance. Doing so will make the dragon hunter crossbow untradeable.
Players can dismantle the crossbow if desired, returning the regular crossbow and heads.
Creation
Comparison between other ranged weapons


### Dragon hunter crossbow (t)
The dragon hunter crossbow (t) is a cosmetic variant of the dragon hunter crossbow in turquoise. It can be created by using Vorkath's head on the crossbow, after claiming the elite tier rewards from the Combat Achievements system via Ghommal by the Warriors' Guild entrance.
Players can dismantle the crossbow if desired, returning the regular crossbow and head.
Creation
Comparison between other ranged weapons


### Dragon hunter lance
The dragon hunter lance is a one-handed dragonbane weapon created by using a hydra claw on a Zamorakian hasta. Equipping the lance requires level 78 Attack. Additionally, it requires completion of the Firemaking (not the pyre step), Fishing, and Smithing sections of the Barbarian Training miniquest. In addition, the Smithing section requires completion of the Tai Bwo Wannai Trio quest (as well as speaking with Tamayu first, as it is required to learn Barbarian Smithing techniques). As it is created from a Zamorakian hasta, it will act as a Zamorak item within the God Wars Dungeon.


### Dragon hunter wand
The Dragon hunter wand is a magic dragonbane weapon requiring level 65 Magic to wield. It is obtained as a rare drop from the Hueycoatl.
The wand has a passive effect that increases accuracy by 75% and damage by 40% when fighting dragons (excluding Elvarg and revenant dragons) and other draconic creatures, such as wyrms, wyverns, and hydras. This stacks multiplicatively with the Slayer helm (i) or Elite Void Knight equipment, but not the salve amulet (i). The wand can also autocast spells from the Standard spellbook and the Ancient spellbook.
Item sources
Used in recommended equipment


### Drift net fishing
Drift net fishing is a skilling method that requires 44 Hunter and 47 Fishing, rewarding experience in both. Drift nets are used to catch fish shoals in the Underwater area of Fossil Island. This method offers fairly high experience rates in both skills at the cost of drift nets, and requires more attention than other passive fishing methods.
Requirements
Completion of Bone Voyage to access Fossil Island
44 Hunter and 47 Fishing (Non-boostable)
At least 1 drift net. Nets can be brought in noted form and stored with Annette in the fishing area. Between 80–110 nets are used per hour depending on efficiency.
A diving apparatus and fishbowl helmet are strongly recommended to prevent oxygen level depletion underwater.


### Drogo's Mining Emporium.
Drogo's Mining Emporium is located in the Dwarven Mines, run by Drogo. Although labelled as a mining shop, it only sells hammers and bronze pickaxes. It does provide a place for players to sell their ores or bars, but it is relatively unpopular due to its inconvenient location.
Stock


### Edge (Colossal Wyrm Agility Course)
The edge is an Agility obstacle found within the Colossal Wyrm Agility Course. The first and second edge are automatically crossed when using the preceding agility obstacle. The third edge requires an agility level of 62.
Agility info


### Edge (Shayzien Agility Course)
The edges are Agility obstacles found within the Shayzien Agility Course. An Agility level of 45 is required to pass the obstacle, which will then grant the player 18 Agility experience for the first and 21 for the second obstacle.
Agility info


### Elder Coco's Crafting Stall
Edler Coco's Crafting Stall is a crafting shop run by Elder Coco in the Summer Shore. As well as crafting supplies, the stall also sells gems.
Stock


### Elder Raley's Herblore Stall
Elder Raley's Herblore Stall is a herblore shop in the Summer Shore. Despite the shop's name, it is not run by Elder Raley; rather, it is being run by his apprentice, Mag.
Stock


### Elder Reggle's Farming Shop
Elder Reggle's Farming Shop is a farming shop run by Elder Reggle on the east coast of The Great Conch.
Stock


### Elf (Thieving)
Elves are citizens of Lletya and Prifddinas that can be talked to as well as pickpocketed from with level 85 Thieving. A player can only access the Lletya elves after starting Mourning's End Part I and the Prifddinas elves after completing Song of the Elves.
Pickpocketing an Elf is a task for the elite Western Provinces Diary.
Pickpocketable elves
Elves that can be pickpocketed in Lletya include:
Arvel
Goreu
Kelyn
Mawrth
Elves that can be pickpocketed in Prifddinas include:
Money making
The following money making guide is available for Elf (Thieving):
Pickpocketing
Pickpocket chance
The chance of a successful pickpocket without boosts is 33.94% at level 85 and 39.2% at level 99.


### Enormous Tentacle (Fishing Trawler)
An Enormous Tentacle regularly attacks the trawler boat during the Fishing Trawler minigame, causing the boat's rail to be broken. When it appears, a chatbox message will state: The Kraken is attacking!. It can be chopped at using an axe, to chase it away. The chance to successfully chop at the kraken's tentacle depends on the axe being used and the player's Woodcutting level. This rewards 5 Woodcutting experience per successful chop, as well as 10 trawler contribution points. A blessed axe cannot be used, and the infernal axe, crystal axe, and all felling axes will behave as a normal axe and not use charges or forester's rations.


### Expert mining gloves
Expert mining gloves are a pair of gloves that can be obtained by asking Belona in the Mining Guild to combine your mining gloves with a pair of superior mining gloves, for a fee of 40 unidentified minerals. They require 70 Mining to wear.
Gathering the 180 total required unidentified minerals will take players approximately 10 to 12 hours of power-mining iron, which is the fastest method for acquiring unidentified minerals.
Upon dying above level 20 Wilderness, the gloves will be converted into 14 coins when dropped.
This item can be stored in the armour case of a costume room.
Effects
When mining certain rocks with the gloves equipped, the rock will not be depleted from one to three times depending on the rock, and the player will continue mining the rock until it depletes.


### Farming
Farming is a skill in which players plant seeds and harvest crops. The crops grown range from fruit, vegetables, herbs, and hops, to wood-bearing trees and cacti, to even mushrooms and coral. The harvested items have a wide variety of uses, and are popular for training Herblore and Cooking. Many players sell their harvest for a significant profit. The plants grown in farming patches are accessible only to the player who grew them.
Planted crops grow according to set timings, continuing even after a player logs out. This makes it possible to gain large amounts of experience from little in-game time, especially when growing high-experience crops such as trees. Players can also gain rapid experience by planning farming runs that maximise the number of plants grown at once.


### Farming Guild bank
The Farming Guild bank is a bank located in the Farming Guild. Players frequently use it after completing Farming runs, or after cutting the nearby redwood tree. Players must have at least level 85 Farming[boostable] to enter the high tier area of the Guild to access the bank.
The bank is the west-most bank in RuneScape.


### Farming Supplies
Farming Supplies is a shop accessed via any member of the Group of Advanced Gardeners, who are found in various farming patches throughout the world.
Stock


### Farming runs
Farming runs, sometimes referred to as farm runs, are the act of visiting farming locations in sequence to efficiently harvest crops. Farming runs are the most effective way to gain Farming experience, compared to waiting for growing crops to complete.
Farming runs can be combined with activities such as item alchemising or bolt fletching.
Even though all farming locations can be reached on foot, or by boat, it may, especially with high Farming levels, be worth obtaining teleports. Lunar Magic is available for higher level users and is helpful for its Fishing Guild teleport, as well as the Cure Plant and Fertile Soil spells. These spells are available between Magic levels 66 and 83, following completion of the Lunar Diplomacy quest.


### Farming shops
Farming shops are a type of store throughout Gielinor. The stores are represented by a  icon. The majority of farming shops sell tools that players need to start Farming, while some sell seeds. There are 13 Farming shops in Old School RuneScape. Most are located near an allotment farming patch.
Locations
Farmers
In addition to the shops, there are also single farmers who will look after your farming patches. They sell an unlimited number of farming-related items, and are located at all farming patches except special ones.


### Farming/Experience table
This table shows all possible experience sources for Farming in the game, as well as all interactions that require a Farming level. It also lists the items involved in the interactions, as well as other skills involved in processing the item.


### Farming/Patch locations
Allotment/Flower/Herb patches
Hops patches
Bush patches
Tree patches
Fruit tree patches
Spirit tree patches
Unlike other trees, spirit trees are initially limited by the player's Farming level. Players can only have one planted at 83, two at 88, three at 93, and four at 96. Upon reaching 99 Farming, the restriction is removed, and players can plant unlimited spirit trees. Temporary boosts can be used to meet these requirements. The spirit tree in a superior garden in the player-owned house does not count towards this limit. There are currently 5 patches in which spirit trees can be planted.
Special patches
Special tree patches
Cactus patches
Cactus patches can grow cactus seeds (55 Farming) and potato cactus seeds (64 Farming).


### Feldip Hunter area
The Feldip Jungle is one of several Hunter training areas. It is located south of the Feldip Hills.
Transportation
Teleport there by using a Feldip hills teleport scroll.
A gnome glider ends just north of this area. Completion of   One Small Favour is required to be able to use this route.
Fairy ring code AKS lands just north of this area.
Travel to Corsair Cove from Rimmington (talk to Cabin Boy Colin on the western jetty) and take the shortcut over the rocks level. Completion of   The Corsair Curse and  10  is required.
Alternatively, you could walk from Yanille or Castle Wars, but it is a considerable distance compared with the other two teleport options.


### Fernahei's Fishing Hut.
Fernahei's Fishing Hut is a fishing shop in Shilo Village run by Fernahei. The shop is filled with items related to fly Fishing, which is what Shilo Village is most popular with players for aside from the highest level Slayer Master, Duradel. It is common for players preparing to begin fly Fishing in the village to purchase the feathers here, unless they have purchased beforehand.
Stock


### Ferret (Hunter)
The ferret is a creature that players can capture with the Hunter skill at level 27 or above and after completion of Eagles' Peak, granting 115.2 Hunter experience.
Location
Note that the ferret inside the Ardougne Zoo cannot be caught with Hunter due to being fenced in.
Hunter info
Hunting technique
The hunting technique is the same as for chinchompas. Players must bring a box trap for each trap they plan to set up. Players can use the same box trap over and over to catch multiple creatures.
Multiple traps
Box trapping can be done with multiple traps at once, with the maximum amount of traps depending on the player's Hunter level.
Uses
A ferret can be used to hunt white rabbits in the same area.


### Firemaking
Firemaking is a skill used to light fires, among other things. It is the artisan companion skill of Woodcutting. Firemaking is trained by players to complete quests or participate in minigames. Several quests with quality rewards require Firemaking levels, such as Recipe for Disaster and Desert Treasure I. Similarly, Firemaking-oriented minigames with useful rewards include Shades of Mort'ton and the Wintertodt boss. Firemaking allows players to light logs to cook food anywhere, albeit with a higher burn chance than with a range. Wintertodt is a solid way to train Firemaking whilst also being profitable. Subduing the Wintertodt is the only way to obtain the pyromancer outfit.
Burnt-out fires leave behind ashes which some members may use to train Herblore with by making Serum 207.


### Firemaking/Experience table
This table shows all possible experience sources for Firemaking in the game, as well as all interactions that require a Firemaking level. It also lists the items involved in the interactions, as well as other skills involved in processing the item.


### Fishing
Fishing is a skill which involves catching fish from selected spots around Gielinor. Higher Fishing levels enable different mechanisms of Fishing, the ability to catch a larger selection of fish and increases a player's catch rate. Caught fish may be cooked through the Cooking skill to create food which may be used later to regain hitpoints during combat. Alternatively, many players sell their excess stock of catches for gold.
Fish
When caught, most fish will be raw and cannot be eaten until they are cooked. The name and colour indicates this. For example, when shrimps are first caught they are named "raw shrimps", but once cooked the name changes to "shrimps".
There is a number of fish that can't be cooked, but instead most others offer some useful material when cut or smashed.


### Fishing Contest
Fishing Contest is a quest in which the player has to earn the friendship of two dwarven brothers by securing a fishing trophy for them. Afterwards, they allow the player to use the dwarven passage underneath the mountain.
Details
Walkthrough
Dwarves can't fish!
To start this quest, head to either the dwarf Austri east of White Wolf Mountain or the dwarf Vestri west of the mountain, at the points shown on the map.
Tip: The western quest start point is closer to the next part of the quest, so it is recommended if not planning to use fast travel.
Talk with either dwarf, and use the following dialogue options. ( 1•2•3•1•1)… Ask what is down the stairs, and he will say you can't use them. Ask why not, and he will ask you how you would like it if he took a shortcut through your home.


### Fishing Guild
The Fishing Guild is a members-only guild located in a fenced area north of East Ardougne; west of Hemenster, which was released on 17 June 2002. To enter, players must have a Fishing level of 68; temporary boosts can be used to boost one's level in order to enter the guild, making the lowest level to possibly enter 62 using a super fishing potion.
Historically, aside from Catherby, the Fishing Guild has been one of the most popular places to fish because of the nearby bank.
Outside of the guild is the Master Fisher. Players can talk to him to receive advice on training Fishing, or to purchase a Fishing cape for 99,000 coins.
While inside the guild, players will receive an invisible +7 level boost to their Fishing.


### Fishing Guild Shop.
The Fishing Guild Shop is a store located in the Fishing Guild, owned by Roachey. It sells fishing bait and feathers, and will buy fish from players. The guild requires 68 Fishing to enter.
Stock


### Fishing Guild bank
The Fishing Guild bank is a bank located in the Fishing Guild. It was the first bank to be added in RuneScape 2.
Players must have  68  to enter the guild, although it can be boosted from as low as 63 with an admiral pie. The bank is commonly used by ironmen, as well as for people completing the Fishing Guild Treasure Trails step.


### Fishing Spot (The Gauntlet)
The fishing spot is a fishing pool located in the resource rooms of the Gauntlet. Four raw paddlefish can be collected from each fishing spot.
Fishing info
Drop rates are estimated based on 982,938 samples from the Drop Rate Project, unless otherwise cited.


### Fishing guild teleport (tablet)
The Fishing guild teleport is a magic tablet that can be broken by players to teleport outside the entrance of the Fishing Guild.
Players can create this item on the lunar lectern in the ceremonial building on Lunar Isle with a piece of soft clay, 3 law runes, 10 water runes, and 3 astral runes, as well as level 85 Magic while being on the Lunar spellbook.
The player does not need to have the relevant Magic level to use the tablet, which shares the same rule with all tablets and the player will not receive any experience, although making the teleport tablet does give 80 experience in Magic.
Destination
Creation
Money making
The following money making guide is available for Fishing guild teleport (tablet):


### Fishing mix
Fishing mix is a barbarian potion that boosts a player's Fishing level by 3 and heals 6 Hitpoints. It is made by adding caviar to a fishing potion(2), requiring level 53 Herblore and giving 38 experience. This mix can only be created after completing the Herblore part of Barbarian training with Otto Godblessed.
Drinking a sip of the potion gives the message "You drink the lumpy potion". If the player drinks all doses or empties the potion, it will become a regular empty vial.
Creation
Item sources
Fishing mix(2)


### Fishing potion
A Fishing potion is a potion made by using snape grass on an avantoe potion (unf), requiring 50 Herblore, yielding a Fishing potion(3) and 112.5 Herblore experience. A dose of Fishing potion provides a temporary skill boost to Fishing of +3. It can be stored in a tackle box.
After Barbarian Herblore Training, caviar can be added to a Fishing potion(2), requiring 53 Herblore, yielding a Fishing mix and 38 Herblore experience. A Fishing mix has 2 doses, boosts Fishing by 3, and heals 6 Hitpoints.
Creation
Products
Price per dose
Item sources
Fishing potion(1)
Fishing potion(3)


### Fishing shops
Fishing shops are a type of store found throughout RuneScape. The stores are represented by a . Fishing shops sell fishing equipment, fishing bait, feathers, and raw fish.
Locations
Grandpa Jack (sells Fishing rods)
Trakerel's Fish Shop


### Fishing spot (Braindeath Island)
Fishing spots can be found on Braindeath Island and are used during the Rum Deal quest in order to catch Sluglings.
Location
Fish


### Fishing spot (Camdozaal)
Seven fishing spots can be found in the Ruins of Camdozaal: four next to the preparation table and offering altar, and three near the mine.
These spots give access to raw guppy, raw cavefish, and raw tetra, and members can fish raw catfish. Of these, the three lower levelled fish can be caught with a small fishing net and the two higher levelled fish can be caught with a big fishing net. Additionally, a frogspawn fishing spot can be found to the north of these fishing spots.
Fishing info
Small Net
Big Net


### Fishing spot (Civitas illa Fortis)
A big-net fishing spot can be found in a small pond at the park in Civitas illa Fortis. The fishing spot provides a variety of items, including broken glass and caskets; there is also a rare chance to receive a jade or red topaz.
The noteworthy item that can be obtained from this fishing spot are the house keys, providing an alternative and idle way of obtaining keys for stealing valuables. The fishing spot does not move, and can therefore be continually fished from until the player has a full inventory.
Despite not catching any fish, Rada's blessing and Spirit flakes do work at this fishing spot.
At level 99, players can expect 20-30 house keys per hour and around 2,000 Fishing experience.


### Fishing spot (Enchanted Valley)
Fishing spots can be found in the Enchanted Valley. Nothing can be fished from these spots, however attempting to fish in them using a fishing tool (small fishing net) will cause a River troll to spawn.
Location


### Fishing spot (Hemenster)
Fishing spots can be found in Hemenster during the Fishing Contest quest. These spots are used to catch a raw giant carp.
Location
Fish


### Fishing spot (Piscatoris Fishing Colony)
Fishing spots can be found at the Piscatoris Fishing Colony during and after the Swan Song quest. These spots are the only place you can fish Raw monkfish.
Location
Net
Harpoon


### Fishing spot (ScapeRune)
The ScapeRune fishing spots can be used to fish for fishlike things. Players can use one of the small fishing net that spawn near the spots to fish here, but if players are already carrying a small or big fishing net, those will work as well. Fishing here rewards no Fishing experience, although completing the random event will reward either 650 Fishing or Magic experience. Players level 50 Magic or below will always receive Fishing experience, which prevents the random event from ruining pure accounts.
Fishing info


### Fishing spot (Streambound Cavern)
The Streambound Cavern fishing spot is used to catch raw bream for use during the fights against the Moons of Peril. Multiple breams can be caught at once if the player has aligned their net as to where the bream are swimming.
Locations
Fishing info


### Fishing spot (Swan Song)
The fishing spot is found in the north-western corner of the Piscatoris Fishing Colony exclusively during the Swan Song quest. Only fresh monkfish may be caught at this spot, requiring level 62 Fishing and yielding only 1 Fishing experience when caught. During the quest, players are provided a small fishing net and asked by Arnold Lydspor to refill the colony's food stock and must fish and cook five fresh monkfish. Periodically whilst fishing at the spot, progressively stronger sea trolls will spawn and attack the player. After the quest, the fishing spot will disappear and players will have access to fishing spots where raw monkfish may be caught.
Net


### Fishing spot (Tempoross Cove)
Fishing spots can be found on Tempoross Cove where the player can fight Tempoross. These spots are harpoon only and are used to catch raw harpoonfish and crystallised harpoonfish. The active version of this fishing spot (can be viewed as harpoonfish jumping out of the water) has a chance to catch two fish at once.
Main drops
Fishing chance
The chance to catch a harpoonfish scales from 78.13% at level 35 up to 100% at level 99. When fishing at the spots with leaping harpoonfish, there is a 50% chance to catch a bonus fish on a successful roll.


### Fishing spot (The Stranglewood)
A fishing spot can be found by a small dock in the south-western area of The Stranglewood. Besides raw pike, the fishing spot can also give a variety of odd items such as newspapers, old boots, acorns, and chromium ingots.
Items are gathered from this spot much more slowly than most other fishing spots in the game, and therefore it is not recommended for training Fishing, not even when trying to obtain raw pike or caskets. Despite having one of the highest drop rates for moon key loop halves, it can take longer to acquire one here than through more rewarding activities.
The spot never moves, meaning players can fish continuously until their inventories are full.


### Fishing spot (Tutorial Island)
Fishing spots can be found on Tutorial Island. These spots are used to introduce the player to fishing and only shrimps can be caught.
Location
Fish


### Fishing spot (aerial fishing)
Rod Fishing spots can be found on the island in Lake Molch. These spots are used to catch Bluegill, Common tench, Mottled eel, Greater siren and a Golden tench.
Location
Fishing info
Fish
Secondary
Catch formula
The formula for what type of fish is caught is as follows.
Pick a random number 0 to (X-1) inclusive, where X=Fishing level×2+Hunter level3
If the number is 82+, the player will receive a greater siren if the player meets the level requirements.
If it's 67+, the player will receive a mottled eel if the player meets the level requirements.
If it's 52+, the player will receive a common tench if the player meets the level requirements.
Any other number and the player will receive a bluegill.


### Fishing spot (barbarian)
These fishing spots are used for Barbarian Fishing, which requires completion of the fishing section of Barbarian Training. They can be found near Otto Godblessed, south of the Barbarian Outpost, and near the summit of Mount Quidamortem. Catching Leaping trout, Leaping salmon, and Leaping sturgeon here also grants Strength and Agility experience.
Location
Bait


### Fishing spot (big net, harpoon)
Fishing spots can be found throughout Gielinor typically along coastal areas. They can be fished for raw mackerel, raw cod, raw bass, big bass, raw shark, and big shark. There are also non-fish items such as casket, leather boots, leather gloves, oyster, and seaweed.
Locations
Big fishing net
Mechanics
When fishing with a big net, each item is rolled independently, with rarities depending on Fishing level. A roll is made for each item on the table below, save for the raw mackerel, which is rolled twice. It is hence possible to catch multiple items simultaneously.
Wearing a skills necklace with at least one charge while big net fishing will slightly increase the chance of finding a casket.


### Fishing spot (cage, harpoon)
Fishing spots can be found throughout Gielinor typically at coastal areas or docks. They can be fished at with lobster cages or harpoons for raw lobster, raw tuna, raw swordfish or Big Swordfish depending on the tool used.
Locations
Cage
Harpoon
Main drops
The probability of receiving a raw tuna or a swordfish-type fish is shown in the plot below.
Conditional drops
The following table shows items which can additionally be received upon a successful resource roll.
Drop rates are estimated based on 20,187 samples from the Drop Rate Project, unless otherwise cited.


### Fishing spot (dark crab)
Fishing spots can be found in the Wilderness. These spots are used to fish raw dark crabs.
Locations
Cage (no bait)
Cage (dark bait)


### Fishing spot (frogspawn)
Fishing spots containing frogspawn can be found in swamp areas around Lumbridge. These spots are used to catch Frog spawn, as well as two types of eels.
Locations
Fishing info
Net
Bait


### Fishing spot (karambwan)
Fishing spots can be found in Karamja. They use a karambwan vessel and raw karambwanji in order to catch raw karambwan.
Location
Fish
Conditional drops
The following table shows items which can additionally be received upon a successful resource roll.


### Fishing spot (karambwanji)
Fishing spots can be found in Karamja. These spots are used to fish raw karambwanji which are used as bait in order to fish raw karambwans and can also be used to make karambwanji paste. If the player has a full inventory and at least one slot containing karambwanji, they will no longer catch shrimp and only catch karambwanji.
Location
Fish
The amount of karambwanji caught depends on the player's Fishing level, increasing every five levels. The exact formula is ⌊15×𝐹𝑖𝑠ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑔𝐿𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑙⌋+1, meaning players with a Fishing level of 95 or above will catch 20 karambwanji at a time, and boosting beyond 99 will result in 21 karambwanji caught per catch.


### Fishing spot (lantern)
Fishing spots for lantern harpooning can be found at The Onyx Crest, Laguna Aurorae, Wintumber Island, and Buccaneers' Haven, requiring a Sailing level of 47, 58, 63, 76 respectively. They can be fished for raw swordtip squid and raw jumbo squid.
Locations
Harpoon
Main drops
Conditional drops
The following table shows items which can additionally be received upon a successful resource roll.


### Fishing spot (lava eel)
Fishing spots can be found in three locations. These spots are used to fish Lava eels which are primarily used for the completion of the Heroes' Quest.
Locations
Lure (feathers)


### Fishing spot (minnow)
Fishing spots can be found in the Fishing Guild. These spots are used to catch minnows which can later be exchanged for raw sharks.
Location
Fish


### Fishing spot (sacred eel)
Fishing spots can be found at Zul-Andra. These spots are used to catch Sacred eels which can then be dissected into Zulrah's scales.
Players must speak to High Priestess Zul-Harcinqa before attempting to fish at these fishing spots or one of the people nearby will stop them from doing so.
Location
Fish


### Fishing spot (small net, bait)
The fishing spot with small net and bait options is commonly found in many fishing locations. Fish can be caught at them with either a small net or a fishing rod and bait.
Locations
Fishing info
Small net
Bait
Conditional drops
The following table shows items that can be received in addition to the main resource.
Drop rates are estimated based on 2,308 samples from the Drop Rate Project, unless otherwise cited.


### Fishing spot (swamp)
The fishing spot with a bait option can be found in Morytania's swamps. Players can fish for eels in this fishing spot.
Locations
Fishing info


### Fishing spots
There are several different types of fishing spots in Old School RuneScape. The most common types are 'Net/Bait', 'Lure/Bait', 'Cage/Harpoon', and 'Net/Harpoon'. Most fishing spots take a minimum of 250 ticks (2.5 minutes) to move, and a maximum of 530 ticks (around 5 minutes). There are some exceptions: fishing spots for Karambwan and the big net spot in Civitas illa Fortis never move, fishing spots for Sacred eel and Infernal eel move between 100 ticks (1 minute) and 300 ticks (3 minutes), and fishing spots for Anglerfish move between 8 ticks (5 seconds) and 830 ticks (8.3 minutes).
Overview of fishing spots
Fishing


### Fishing/Experience table
This table shows all possible experience sources for Fishing in the game, as well as all interactions that require a Fishing level. It also lists the items involved in the interactions, as well as other skills involved in processing the item.


### Flax (Farming)
Flax is a plant that can be grown with 18 Farming using 3 flax seeds in a Hops patch. Flax can be spun into bowstrings and linen yarn, which is used to make bolts of linen and linen trawling nets. 6 flax can be used to protect hemp.
Farming info
Average harvest yield
Each time a bundle of flax is picked from a fully grown plant, one of its harvest lives risks being expended in the process. The chance to successfully harvest flax without losing a harvest life is not known. The average harvest yield is about 35.
Growth stages


### Fletching
Fletching is a skill which allows the player to create various types of ranged weapons and their ammunition. The products of this skill are primarily used in the combat skill, Ranged. It also provides some of the most popular materials used for High Alchemy, which is a commonly used method for training the Magic skill.
At a higher Fletching level, the skill can be trained without losing any coins, although a decent amount of working capital is very useful. Money can usually be generated at higher Fletching levels. Alternatively, it can be extremely fast with more expensive methods.


### Fletching knife
The fletching knife is an equippable version of a knife obtained as reward from the Vale Totems minigame. It can be found at a rate of 1/333.3 while rummaging through Vale offerings or purchased from Ranulph's Vale Research Exchange for 350 research points. Spare fletching knives can be exchanged for 175 Vale research points.
The fletching knife reduces the time to complete various Fletching actions by 1 tick for all but the first item being fletched. For example, fletching unstrung bows becomes a 2 tick action instead of a 3 tick action, meaning that approximately 2,700 bows can be fletched per hour instead of 1,800. This effect is active whether it is in the inventory or equipped in the off-hand slot, though the wielder will still need a knife in their inventory to use on logs.


### Fletching training
This article gives tips about training the Fletching skill.
Starting off
Early levels can be skipped by completing quests that give Fletching experience. Completing Animal Magnetism, Big Chompy Bird Hunting and Zogre Flesh Eaters will grant a total of 3,262 Fletching experience, which will get the player up to level 18. These quests have few requirements and can be done at a low level. Completing Temple of Ikov and The Fremennik Trials will grant an additional 10,812 Fletching experience, which will get the player up to level 30.
Zero time methods
Fletching can be trained entirely while doing other activities, meaning that the skill may be trained passively in "zero time".


### Fletching/Experience table
This table shows all possible experience sources for Fletching in the game, as well as all interactions that require a Fletching level. It also lists the items involved in the interactions.


### Floor spikes (Brimhaven Agility Arena)
The floor spikes are an Agility obstacle found within the Brimhaven Agility Arena. Failing to jump across the spikes successfully will cause the player to take damage. Players will no longer fail this obstacle at level 50 Agility.
The amount of damage is based on the player's current health, according to the formula below:
⌊Hitpoints⋅5100⌋+2
An unusual property of floor spikes is that clicking outside the agility arena can cause a character to route over the spikes. Careful positioning of the camera can allow a player to click in the same spot repeatedly to continuously jump over the spikes, to gain very low-attention Agility experience.
Agility info


### Frankie's Fishing Emporium
Frankie's Fishing Emporium is a food shop run by Frankie in the south-east corner of Port Piscarilius which sells raw fish.
The shop sells a wide variety of fish in large quantities, making the shop useful for Ironmen wanting to train Cooking or to quickly stock up on food. It will also buy raw fish for a higher price than other shops, making it also useful for getting rid of unwanted fish. However, non-Iron accounts will get a lot more money by selling raw fish on the Grand Exchange.
Stock


### Free-to-play Magic training
Magic is a useful skill in Old School RuneScape, and especially in free to play, because there is no access to magic tablets, so many teleports are only available by levelling Magic.
Equipment choice
Before you begin training
Before you can begin training Magic, you'll need what every great mage requires: runes! Every spell requires at least one type of rune, and many spells require three and sometimes even four different types of runes to cast.
At level 1 Magic, you'll only be able to cast Wind Strike, which requires one air rune and one mind rune. With a staff of air equipped, you have access to unlimited air runes, so that you don't need air runes.


### Free-to-play Mining training
This guide outlines the best methods for training the Mining skill in free-to-play. Even though mining runite ore with 85 Mining is one of the fastest free-to-play money making methods, profit from lower level ores is very low so it is more efficient to drop mined ores when training and use the saved time for other money making methods.
Pickaxes
Pickaxes are required to train Mining, ranging from bronze to rune. Each tier up decreases the tick interval between rolls to mine an ore and thus it is recommended to always use the highest tier pickaxe available. If the Attack level requirement is met, save an inventory space by equipping the pickaxe.


### Gap (Agility Pyramid)
The gap is an Agility obstacle found within the Agility Pyramid. An Agility level of 30 is required to pass the obstacle, which will then grant the player Agility experience. Failing the obstacle will send the player to a lower level.
Agility info


### Gap (Shayzien Agility Course)
The gap is an Agility obstacle found within the Shayzien Agility Course, granting the player 106 Agility experience.
Agility info


### Gate (Penguin Agility Course)
The gate is the final Agility obstacle found within the Penguin Agility Course. An Agility level of 30 is required to pass the obstacle, which will then grant the player 65 Agility experience.
Agility info


### Gnome Stronghold Agility Course
The Tree Gnome Stronghold Agility Course is an Agility course in which the player must traverse obstacles consisting of a Log Balance, Obstacle Nets, Tightropes, and Pipes. It was released along with the Agility skill on 12 December 2002. It is located south of the Grand Tree in the Tree Gnome Stronghold, which is north-west of East Ardougne. This Agility course is the lowest level course that can be accessed. It is impossible to fail any of the obstacles on this course. Players will receive marks of grace during this course.
Completing a lap of the Gnome Stronghold Agility Course is a requirement for the easy Western Provinces Diary.
Introduction
This course has no requirements. It is impossible to fail any of the obstacles at this course, so it is not necessary to bring any food.


### Gnome cooking
Gnome cooking is a specialised part of the Cooking skill that is available to members. Like standard cooking, players may burn various gnome cuisine, stopping entirely at level 38. Special equipment and ingredients are required for gnomish cooking, all of which can be obtained either by purchasing from Hudo or Heckel Funch, or by picking up respawns around the Grand Tree in the Tree Gnome Stronghold.
Cooking tutorials can be given by Aluft Gianne snr. and Blurberry, but are not required to begin making the food. These tutorials are however required to start the Gnome Restaurant minigame, as Gianne jnr. will request recommendations from both of them before it is possible to begin.


### Graahk hunter gear
Graahk hunter gear is a set of hunter gear made at the Fancy Clothes Store in Varrock, Pellem's Fur Store in the Hunter Guild and Prifddinas' Seamstress in Prifddinas, with either tattered or perfect graahk furs, and requires 38 Hunter to wear.
When the full set is worn, players will take 40% less damage from Hunter creatures. Contrary to popular belief, these do not improve catch rates of any hunter creatures.
To make horned graahk tops or legs, bring either one tattered or normal graahk furs plus 150 coins each to the fancy-dress shop owner in Varrock or Pellem in the Hunter Guild. Horned graahk headdresses require one normal graahk fur plus 750 coins to be made.


### Gwenith Hunter area
The Gwenith Hunter area is a small valley located north-east of Prifddinas and east of Gwenith. Players with 63 Hunter can find nine carnivorous chinchompas to catch via box trapping, granting 265 Hunter experience each.
In order to reach the hunter area, players must have completed Song of the Elves, as the only way to reach the hunting area is through Prifddinas.
Transportation
Leave Prifddinas through the northern city gates, go north and then turn east underneath the rope bridge.
Hunter creatures
The following Hunter creature is found in this area:
Features
Aside from the nine carnivorous chinchompas around the area, there are other points of interest in the area:
A cave entrance to the north side of the valley leads players into the lair of a deadly rabbit.


### Hand holds (Brimhaven Agility Arena)
The Hand holds are an Agility obstacle found within the Brimhaven Agility Arena. Failing to cross the obstacle will cause the player to fall and take damage; they will need to go up a nearby climbing rope to get back onto the course.
The amount of damage dealt by the fall is based on the player's current health, according to the formula below.
⌊Hitpoints⋅5100⌋+2
Agility info


### Hemp (Farming)
Hemp is a plant that can be grown with 37 Farming using 3 Hemp seeds in a Hops patch. Hemp can be spun into hemp yarn, which is used to make canvas and hemp trawling nets. 6 hemp can be used to protect cotton.
Farming info
Average harvest yield
Each time a hemp is picked from a fully grown plant, one of its harvest lives risks being expended in the process. The chance to successfully harvest a hemp without losing a harvest life is not known. The average harvest yield is estimated to be about 20.
Growth stages


### Herblore
Herblore is a members-only skill that allows players to make their own potions from herbs and various secondary ingredients.
Potions created with the Herblore skill have a variety of effects. Most potions can be drank to give players temporary skill boosts or other status effects, such as antifire or antipoison. Effects of temporary skill boosts degrade at roughly 1 level per minute until the potion completely wears off.
Requirements
Training Herblore or obtaining a temporary boost requires completion of the Druidic Ritual quest. Upon completing this quest, players are rewarded with 250 Herblore experience, granting them level 3 in Herblore. From level 3 onwards, players will be able to train Herblore by creating potions.


### Herblore shops
Herblore shops are a type of store throughout Gielinor. The stores are represented by a  icon. Herblore shops sell items used in the Herblore skill. There are 7 stores in Old School RuneScape.
Locations
Elder Raley's Herblore Stall in The Summer Shore
Frincos' Fabulous Herb Store on Entrana
Grud's Herblore Stall in Gu'Tanoth
Huita's Herbal Supplies in Cam Torum
Jatix's Herblore Shop in Taverley
Myths' Guild Herbalist in Myths' Guild
Prifddinas Herbal Supplies in Prifddinas
Zahur in Nardah
Mixology Rewards, Herblore-oriented minigame shop


### Herblore training
Herblore training usually involves making potions which can only begin after completing the Druidic Ritual quest granting the player level 3 Herblore. To make a potion, the player will have to gather the required ingredients, usually a herb of some sort along with a secondary ingredient, and use them on a vial of water, blood, or coconut milk.
The fastest way to train Herblore is to add secondary ingredients to unfinished potions. If the player banks fairly quickly after each inventory of potions, they can expect to make around 2,500 potions per hour.
A profitable, although slow method to train Herblore is to clean grimy herbs.
Quest experience rewards
Starting off
Completing Jungle Potion, Recruitment Drive and The Dig Site quests will get the player from level 3 to 19.


### Herblore/Experience table
This table shows all possible experience sources for Herblore in the game, as well as all interactions that require a Herblore level. It also lists the items involved in the interactions.


### Hitpoints
Hitpoints (also known as "health" or "HP") represent a player's health. If they reach zero, the player will die. Hitpoints is the only skill for which players start with any experience initially - with 1,154 experience points, placing them at exactly level 10 on Tutorial Island.
Types of damage
Players can experience damage to their hitpoints through:
Combat
Self-inflicted (see below)
Disease
Environment (see below)
Poison
Venom
Bleed
Burn
Fighting
While fighting, both the player and their opponent have a bar over them. This bar represents their Hitpoints.
There are two colours on the bar; green and red. The green part of the bar represents how many Hitpoints a character has left and the red part represents how many Hitpoints they are missing, i.e. the net damage they have suffered.


### Hunter
Hunter is a members-only skill in which players catch different animals and creatures in RuneScape. Although Hunter is a non-combat skill, players can still be damaged while hunting. Using hunting equipment bought from Hunter stores, players can hunt specific creatures obtaining rewards such as spotted kebbit fur for spotted cape, chinchompas, black salamanders, and dragon implings.
Hunter can be trained in a variety of locations throughout the game, with most players beginning their training in the Feldip Hills. Bird house trapping are often utilised at later levels, and at level 46 players can access the Hunter Guild, located in the Avium Savannah, along with its associated rumours.


### Hunter gear
Hunter gear is armour made with furs obtained from catching creatures with tracking or pitfalls using the Hunter skill. It cannot be crafted by players, instead requiring the use of the Custom Fur Clothing interface at the Fancy Clothes Store in Varrock, Pellem's Fur Store in the Hunter Guild, or Prifddinas' Seamstress. It does not increase the chance of successfully catching creatures. It can provide warm clothing bonuses in Wintertodt.
Sets


### Hunter kit
A Hunter kit is an item that is produced from casting the Lunar spell Hunter Kit. A single one-time hunter kit can also be obtained from the Feldip Hills and Relleka hunting experts. It contains 8 items in total.
Contents
These items are somewhat useful for beginning hunters, but have very limited uses for experienced hunters due to the role of them in the skill.
Using this spell was once a very good way of cheaply gaining Magic experience. However, their decline in value has rendered this method of training less efficient than more common methods of Magic training, such as alchemy.


### Hunter potion
Hunter potions are potions that boost your Hunter level by 3. Players with at least 53 Herblore can make this potion. The required ingredients are one clean avantoe and kebbit teeth dust. 120 Herblore experience is given per potion made. A player can obtain kebbit teeth dust by using a pestle and mortar on kebbit teeth. These teeth are loot from hunting sabre-toothed kebbits.
After Barbarian Herblore Training is completed, caviar can be added to a hunter potion(2) to produce a hunting mix. This requires 58 Herblore and provides 40 Herblore experience. A hunting mix has 2 doses, each of which heals 6 Hitpoints in addition to the normal hunter potion boost.
Creation
Products
Price per dose
Item sources
Hunter potion(3)


### Hunter shops
Hunter shops are a type of store throughout Gielinor. The stores are represented by a  icon. Hunter shops sell items used in the Hunter skill. There are 4 Hunter shops in Old School RuneScape.
Locations
Aleck's Hunter Emporium. in Yanille
Elder Strom's Hunting Stall in The Summer Shore
Nardah Hunter Shop in Nardah
Imia's Supplies in Hunter Guild


### Hunter spear tips
Hunter spear tips are an item used in crafting hunter's spears that are obtainable from hunters' loot sacks, which are received as rewards upon completing Hunters' Rumours.
Players with level 60 Fletching (unboostable) can use a knife to create hunter's spears from five jerboa tails, a teak log, and five hunter spear tips. Spears are always crafted in batches of five, so a minimum of 5 spear tips must be used.
Products
Item sources


### Hunter training
This guide describes the most effective methods to train the Hunter skill.
General information and tips
Levelling up Hunter allows players to lay more traps at once. Training Hunter within the Wilderness allows players to deploy an extra trap.
Recommended quests and diaries
Bone Voyage for access to Fossil Island, which is required for bird house trapping and drift net fishing.
Starting Fairytale II - Cure a Queen for access to the fairy rings.
Partial complection of Eagles' Peak is required for catching any chinchompas.
If planning to catch black chinchompas, completion of the hard Wilderness Diary is recommended for a fast access to the hunting area.
If planning to catch carnivorous chinchompas, completion of Song of the Elves or the hard Western Provinces Diary is strongly recommended.


### Hunter's spear
The hunter's spear is a thrown weapon that requires level 55 Ranged and 30 Strength to equip. Compared to other ranged weapons, the player's melee strength bonuses are used when determining the amount of ranged damage dealt to a target. Ava's devices do work on these.
The hunter's spear when equipped also acts like a teasing stick and provides a 5% increased chance for teased creatures to walk into a pitfall trap. The spear must be equipped before being able to tease creatures. Teasing creatures does not consume the spear. Despite being a thrown weapon, it cannot be used to tease creatures from a distance. The hunter's spear can be stored in the Huntsman's kit.


### Hunter/Experience table
This table shows all possible experience sources for Hunter in the game, as well as all interactions that require a Hunter level. It also lists the items involved in the interactions, as well as other skills involved in processing the item.


### Hunters' Rumours
Hunters' Rumours are unlocked at 46 Hunter after speaking to Guild Scribe Verity in the Burrow under the Hunter Guild. Players are assigned a rumour from a Guild Hunter which requires them to hunt a specific hunter creature until a rare creature part is received. When a player finds the rare part, a jingle is played and the player receives the message You find a rare piece of the creature! You should take it back to the Hunter Guild.
The quest At First Light offers an introduction to the Hunter Guild and unlocks the ability to complete Master Tier rumours at 91 Hunter, although no other tier of rumour requires completion of this quest.


### Hunters' sunlight crossbow
The hunters' sunlight crossbow is an upgraded variant of the hunters' crossbow that requires level 66 Ranged and 50 Hunter to use. It is made with level 74 Fletching by using a sunlight antelope antler on the hunters' crossbow with a chisel in inventory.
The crossbow uses sunlight or moonlight antler bolts, and works with grapples. Despite being an upgrade from the hunter's crossbow, it cannot be used to fire kebbit or long kebbit bolts.
As with other crossbows, the bolts fired from it roll against the enemy's heavy ranged defence, tying it with Karil's crossbow and chinchompas as the fastest firing weapons to do so. Like the hunters' crossbow, it possesses an attack speed of 4 (3 on rapid), equal to a shortbow and faster than most other crossbows.


### Hunting expert (Rellekka Hunter area)
The Hunting expert is found at the Rellekka Hunter area. He teaches players how to catch the various hunter creatures in the area. Unlike the Hunting expert at the Feldip Hills, he does not sell the Hunter cape.
He is wearing full Kyatt hunter gear.
Even though his examine text states that his hair blends into the surroundings one can clearly see that his hair (or at least his beard) is brown.


### Ice (Penguin Agility Course)
The ice is an Agility obstacle found within the Penguin Agility Course. An Agility level of 30 is required to pass the obstacle, which will then grant the player 180 Agility experience. Failing to cross the obstacle will cause the player to take 2 damage.
Agility info


### Icicles (Penguin Agility Course)
The icicles are an Agility obstacle found within the Penguin Agility Course. Passing the icicles requires an Agility level of 30, and will grant the player 40 Agility experience upon completion. Failing to cross the obstacle will cause the player to take damage.
Players can expect a guaranteed passage through the icicles at level 65 Agility.
Agility info
Success rate
The chance of successfully treading over the icicles ranges from around 78.5% at level 30, up to a 100% success rate at level 65.


### Ironman Guide/Agility
Agility training on an ironman is not very different from training it on a regular account. A variety of agility courses can be used, with the majority of them requiring little to no inventory or equipment considerations. As a skill, Agility is very useful to train for its passive energy restoration effect, which speeds up many training methods, quest completion, and travel around the world in general. Agility also provides access to the graceful outfit, one of the best all-around equipment sets for almost any non-combat situation. Because Agility has very few inventory requirements to train, it is a good skill to train in tandem with other skills that use the inventory space, such as Magic or Fletching.


### Ironman Guide/Farming
Farming is a skill trained primarily through Farming runs. The major difference for ironmen compared to normal Farming training is the difficulty in getting seeds, particularly for those early on in their journey.
Early training: Quests
Early levels can be skipped by completing quests that give Farming experience. Completing the following grants a total of 27,500 Farming experience, which will get the player up to level 37. This skips the tedious low-level Farming and seed collecting.
Goblin generals subquest of Recipe for Disaster requires  10 , rewards 1,000 Farming experience
Fairytale I - Growing Pains requires Lost City, Nature Spirit, rewards 3,500 Farming experience
Forgettable Tale...


### Ironman Guide/Fishing
Fishing is most often trained through "powerfishing", where the caught fish are dropped rather than banked. While the skill is classically a good source of food for combat training, the required time investment to catch and cook fish makes it less useful for Ironman players when compared to buyable food (such as cooked karambwans, jugs of wine, and potatoes with cheese) or Saradomin brews. At high Fishing levels, it is possible to get large amounts of raw sharks from fishing minnows, which can be a solid food choice once cooked.
Early training: Quests
A number of early quests reward significant amounts of Fishing experience, making it possible to skip slow, low-level training methods and get straight to fly fishing.


### Ironman Guide/Fletching
The Fletching skill is most often trained by ironmen while working on other skills, as the ability to purchase all ingredients, as well as their stackability, makes them easy to bring to different training locations. Common skills Fletching is trained alongside are Runecraft, Agility, and Farming. Players also train Fletching while completing quests.
Fletching is also used for making high-level darts and arrows for use in Ranged combat. It can also be useful as a source of mid-tier Ranged armour or weaponry, depending on the player's Fletching level. Players looking to train Slayer will need large amounts of arrows if they plan to use Ranged in combat.


### Ironman Guide/Herblore
Herblore is arguably the hardest skill to train on an ironman since collecting the herbs and most of the secondary ingredients can be slow and time-consuming. Therefore, it is advised to put the rewards of every experience lamp and book of knowledge into Herblore if possible. By the time all hard diaries are completed, if making all potions obtained along the way, the player should have around level 67–69 Herblore, just enough to start boosting to make ranging potions.
Early training: Quests
Druidic Ritual is required for unlocking Herblore. Afterwards, some early levels can be skipped by completing quests that reward Herblore experience. Completing Druidic Ritual, Jungle Potion, and Recruitment Drive rewards in total 2,025 Herblore experience, enough to get level 13.


### Ironman Guide/Hunter
Hunter is a skill that is commonly trained mostly as normal, however, an emphasis is placed on gathering ingredients for Herblore and Ranged, with bird house trapping, Herbiboar and hunter rumours all providing useful resources.
At higher levels, ironmen will often hunt chinchompas to aid in ranged training.
Important unlocks
Quests and achievement diaries are strongly recommended or required to access several hunter training methods.
Eagles' Peak (requires  27 ) is needed to unlock box traps, the only way to hunt chinchompas. It also rewards 2500 Hunter XP.


### Ironman Guide/Prayer
Prayer is a slower skill to train for ironmen due to having to obtain bones themselves. Ideally, it is best to use every bone on an experience boosting altar, such as the Chaos Altar, Ectofuntus, Libation bowl, or with high Construction, a gilded altar in the chapel of your player-owned house. A bone crusher or ash sanctifier can be used for passive experience while training when the bones dropped are not worth picking up.
Early Prayer goals include level 43 for Protect from Magic, Protect from Missiles and Protect from Melee, and level 45 for all stat-boosting Prayers up to Mystic Might.
Later goals include level 70 for Piety, and level 85 for the Elite Desert Diary.
Early training: Quests
Early levels can be skipped by completing quests that reward Prayer experience.


### Ironman Guide/Thieving
Thieving training on an ironman is not very different from training it normally. Certain methods, such as pickpocketing Master Farmers, are favoured due to their valuable drops.
Early training: Quests
Early levels can be skipped by completing quests rewarding Thieving experience. Notably, Hazeel Cult has no requirements, one path involves no combat, and grants 1,500 Thieving experience. Fight Arena also has no requirements, the monsters can be safespotted, and it rewards 2,175 Thieving experience. Completing both will reach level 18 Thieving from level 1.


### Ironwood tree (Farming)
Ironwood trees are trees that may be grown with the Farming skill. Level 80 farmers may grow an ironwood tree by planting an ironwood sapling in a hardwood tree patch using a spade. When planted, the nearby farmer will watch over a growing ironwood tree in exchange for 10 curry leaves, which may be noted.
An ironwood tree sapling will take 8 hardwood growth ticks (at most 5,120 minutes or approximately 3 days, 13 hours, and 20 minutes) to grow to maturity. Once mature, the tree grows into an ironwood tree which can be harvested for ironwood logs.
Planting an ironwood sapling in a hardwood tree patch grants 145 Farming experience. Checking the health of an ironwood tree grants 20,380 Farming experience.


### Jutting wall (Dorgesh-Kaan Agility Course)
The jutting wall is an Agility obstacle found within the Dorgesh-Kaan Agility Course. An Agility level of 70 is required to pass the obstacle, which will grant the player 7.5 Agility experience.
Agility info


### Karamja Hunter area
The Karamja Hunter area is located west of Shilo Village, on the western coast of Karamja. Players with 41 Hunter can catch horned graahks here via pitfall trapping, granting 240 experience each.
Transportation
Using the fairy ring CKR is the fastest way of reaching the Hunter area.
Alternatively, teleport there by using a Tai bwo wannai teleport scroll and walk south.
Hunter creatures
The following Hunter creatures is found in this area:
Trapping horned graahks requires a teasing stick, logs, and a knife. Graahks may drop either graahk fur or tatty graahk fur, used in making graahk hunter gear.
Monsters
Level 3 monkeys
Level 28 hobgoblins north of the hunting spot


### Kyatt hunter gear
Kyatt hunter gear is a set of hunter gear made at the Fancy Clothes Store in Varrock or Pellem's Fur Store in the Hunter Guild, with either tattered or normal kyatt furs if a player has Hunter level 52. The gear also requires 52 Hunter to equip.
Individual pieces reduce damage received from Hunter creatures by 20%, giving a total of 60% reduced damage while the full set is worn. Contrary to popular belief, these do not improve catch rates of any hunter creatures.
To make kyatt tops or legs, bring either one tattered or normal kyatt fur plus 200 coins each to the Fancy-dress shop owner in Varrock or Pellem in the Hunter Guild. Kyatt hats require one normal kyatt fur plus 1,000 coins to be made.


### Ladder (Barbarian Outpost Agility Course)
The ladder is an Agility obstacle found within the Barbarian Outpost Agility Course. Passing the obstacle requires 35 Agility although no experience is awarded.
Agility info


### Ladder (Colossal Wyrm Agility Course)
The ladder is an Agility obstacle found within the Colossal Wyrm Agility Course. An Agility level of 50 is required to pass the first and third ladder. The second ladder has a level requirement of 62.
Agility info


### Ladder (Dorgesh-Kaan Agility Course)
The ladder is an Agility obstacle found within the Dorgesh-Kaan Agility Course. An Agility level of 70 is required to pass the obstacle, which will grant the player 25 Agility experience.
Agility info


### Ladder (Prifddinas Agility Course)
The ladder is an Agility obstacle found within the Prifddinas Agility Course. An Agility level of 75 is required to pass the first ladder. The second ladder has no agility requirement.
Agility info


### Ladder (Shayzien Agility Course)
The ladder is an Agility obstacle found within the Shayzien Agility Course, granting the player 5.5 Agility experience.
Agility info


### Larupia hunter gear
Larupia hunter gear is a set of hunter gear made at the Fancy Clothes Store in Varrock or Pellem's Fur Store in the Hunter Guild, with tattered or perfect larupia furs, and requires 28 Hunter to wear.
When the full set is worn, players will take 20% less damage from Hunter creatures. Contrary to popular belief, these do not improve catch rates of any hunter creatures. All three pieces of larupia gear count as warm clothing at Wintertodt.
Tops or legs may be made with one tattered or normal larupia furs plus 100 coins each, and hats may be made with one normal larupia fur plus 500 coins. This is done by the Fancy-dress shop owner in Varrock or Pellem in the Hunter Guild. It can be stored in the armour case in the Costume Room.


### Ledge (Agility Pyramid)
The ledge is an Agility obstacle found within the Agility Pyramid. An Agility level of 30 is required to pass the obstacle, which yields 52 Agility experience. Failing the obstacle will send the player to a lower level.
Agility info


### Log balance (Barbarian Outpost Agility Course)
The log balance is an Agility obstacle found within the Barbarian Outpost Agility Course. Passing the obstacle requires 35 Agility and will award 13.7 Agility experience.
Agility info


### Log balance (Brimhaven Agility Arena)
The log balance is an Agility obstacle found within the Brimhaven Agility Arena. Failing to cross will cause the player to fall and take damage; they will need to go up a nearby climbing rope to get back onto the course.
The amount of damage dealt by the fall is based on the player's current health, according to the formula below.
⌊Hitpoints⋅5100⌋+2
Agility info


### Log balance (Gnome Stronghold Agility Course)
The log balance is an Agility obstacle found within the Gnome Stronghold Agility Course. An Agility level of one is required to pass the obstacle, which will then grant the player 10 Agility experience. It is not possible to fail this obstacle.
Agility info


### Log balance (Wilderness Agility Course)
The log balance is an Agility obstacle found within the Wilderness Agility Course. Passing the obstacle grants 20 Agility experience, and failing it causes the player to fall into the dungeon below and take damage based on their current health, according to the expression below.
⌊Hitpoints×320⌋+1
Agility info
Success chance
The chance to successfully walk across the slippery log ranges from around 88.7% at level 52 Agility, up to a 98% success rate at level 99.


### Low wall (Agility Pyramid)
The low wall is an Agility obstacle found within the Agility Pyramid. An Agility level of 30 is required to pass the obstacle, which will then grant the player eight Agility experience.
Agility info


### Low wall (Brimhaven Agility Arena)
The low wall is an Agility obstacle found within the Brimhaven Agility Arena. It is possible to fail this obstacle at very low Agility levels, although no damage dealt as the player stumbles back to the starting square.
Agility info


### Magic
Magic is one of the most important skills in Old School RuneScape and is one of the three combat classes. It is used in combat via combat spells, fast transport around the world via teleportation spells, and allows crafted items to be enchanted and convert items into coins through utility spells. While it is possible to play the game without being skilled in Magic, it is a considerable advantage to be able to use many spells, especially High Level Alchemy and teleports.
Magic is also important in order to defend well against Magic attacks. Unlike Melee and Ranged defence, a player's Magic defence is actually determined by both Magic (70%) and Defence (30%) levels, as well as Magic defence bonus.


### Magic Stall
The Magic Stall is a unique thievable stall located on Ape Atoll, owned by Tutab as part of Tutab's Magical Market, a magic shop. A minimum level of 65 Thieving is required to steal from this stall, and the player must be in human form. A successful attempt will reward 90 Thieving experience and one air, fire, earth, nature, or law rune.
If attempting to steal when in monkey form, players will get the message You wouldn’t like to blow your cover by getting caught stealing.
Unlike most thievable stalls, the player has a chance to fail when stealing from this stall, receiving the game message You attempt to steal from the stall but you miss your chance..., though it can be tried again immediately.


### Magic birdhouse
A magic birdhouse is a trap setup for bird house trapping on Fossil Island. A magic birdhouse is created by placing a magic bird house item on a bird house space, which requires level 74 Hunter.
To arm the trap, players must fill the birdhouse with 10 low level or 5 high level hop seeds, herb seeds, flower seeds, bush seeds, or allotment seeds. When filled with seeds, the magic birdhouse will passively fill with birds. After about 50 minutes, the magic birdhouse will be full and can be collected for bird nests, raw bird meat, and feathers, as well as the clockwork used when crafting the item. Collecting the magic birdhouse awards 1,140 Hunter experience.


### Magic box
A magic box is a type of trap used in the Hunter skill. The magic box trapping technique is used to catch imps. With the required Hunter level, the player may set up a magic box. When an imp passes the trap, it may be caught, but only when the player is not standing on the trap.
If the prey is successfully caught, the magic box will enclose the imp inside the box. Doing this creates an Imp-in-a-box, which can be used to bank 2 items or stacks of items, although it cannot be used while in combat or above level 30 Wilderness.
Adding bait (any bead) to a trap will increase the catch rate by +3%. It is not possible to smoke magic boxes, unlike other hunter traps, to increase the catch rate.


### Magic butterfly net
A  magic butterfly net is an item used in the Hunter skill. 17 Hunter is required to access Puro-Puro to obtain it. It is wielded to capture implings, and butterflies or moths throughout Gielinor and Puro-Puro, and bats in the Chambers of Xeric. Catching an impling without an impling jar will automatically loot it, and catching a butterfly or moth without a butterfly jar will automatically release it (unless the player is in Puro-Puro). A jar is required to keep them for later use.
The magic butterfly net can perform the same actions as an ordinary butterfly net, however, the magic butterfly net increases the player's chances of capturing butterflies, implings, moths, and bats by about 7.8% (20/256).


### Magic carpet
The magic carpet is a transportation method in the Kharidian Desert where magical rugs are used to safely traverse the desert. The magic carpet system is operated by Rug Merchants.
There are two major hubs from which the carpets travel - Shantay Pass and South Pollnivneach. Carpets can travel in both directions between destinations, but other carpet destinations will only travel to one of these two hubs.
The carpets require 200 coins to use, but this falls to 100 coins when using the ring of charos (a) or after doing the Rogue Trader miniquest (desert section - blackjack or clothes). If both conditions are met, the price is reduced to 75 coins.
After completing the hard Desert Diary, all magic carpet rides become free of charge.


### Magic damage
Magic Damage is an equipment statistic that functions as a damage multiplier that increases the maximum magic hit and therefore the damage dealt by a player to a target. The effects of most equipped items can be seen at the bottom of the stats window (labelled Magic damage: +x%). Both players and non-player characters can utilize magic damage, although when casting Monster Examine on an attackable NPC, their magic damage is instead labelled as "Magic str bonus".
Temporarily boosting Magic increases magical attack accuracy, making it more likely to successfully hit a target. Except for Magic Dart, increasing the Magic level does not increase the damage of spellbook combat spells.


### Magic essence
The magic essence is a potion that plays a major part in the quest Fairytale II - Cure a Queen. The potion requires level 57 Herblore to create, and will give 130 experience per potion made. The potion is made by adding a starflower to a vial of water, and then adding gorak claw powder, made by using a pestle and mortar on a set of gorak claws. Drinking a dose of magic essence temporarily raises the player's Magic level by 3.
Ingredients
Both the primary and secondary ingredients for the potion require partial completion of Fairytale II to obtain. Gorak claws are frequently dropped from goraks, which can be found either in a separate dimension using fairy ring code DIR, or in the God Wars Dungeon.


### Magic essence (unf)
A Magic essence (unf) is an unfinished potion made at 57 Herblore by using a star flower on a vial of water. Adding gorak claw powder to it creates magic essence, granting 130 Herblore experience. Unlike other unfinished potions, this cannot be stored in the Potion storage of a player's Bank.
Creation
Products


### Magic essence mix
Magic essence mix is a barbarian potion that boosts a player's Magic level by 3 and heals 6 Hitpoints. It is made by adding caviar to a magic essence(2), requiring level 61 Herblore and giving 43 experience. This mix can only be created after completing the Herblore part of the Barbarian Training miniquest with Otto Godblessed.
Note that using this on the Fairy Queen during Fairytale II - Cure a Queen will not cure her. Players must use a regular magic essence potion to cure her.
Drinking a sip of the potion gives the message "You drink the lumpy potion". If the player drinks all doses or empties the potion, it will become a regular empty vial.
Creation


### Magic logs
Magic logs are logs that can be acquired using the Woodcutting skill from magic trees. Cutting magic trees requires a Woodcutting level of 75 or higher and yields 250 Woodcutting experience per log cut. Due to the slow speed at which magic trees are cut at this level, it is advised that players wait until they have a Woodcutting level of at least 85 before chopping magic trees. Players can expect to gain up to 130 magic logs per hour using a dragon axe.
Magic logs can be fletched into unstrung magic shortbows with a Fletching level of 80, granting 83.3 Fletching experience, or into unstrung magic longbows with a Fletching level of 85, granting 91.5 Fletching experience.
Magic logs can also be burnt with a Firemaking level of 75, granting 303.8 Firemaking experience.


### Magic longbow
The magic longbow is a longbow fletched from magic logs. It requires a Ranged level of 50 to wield and can fire arrows up to amethyst.
Players can make a magic longbow with a Fletching level of 85 by cutting an unstrung magic longbow from magic logs, granting 91.5 Fletching experience, and then stringing unstrung magic longbow with a bow string, granting a further 91.5 experience.
Fletching a magic longbow from magic logs and a bow string will profit 146 while fletching a magic longbow from a magic longbow (u) and a bow string will profit 141.
Special attack
The magic longbow's special attack, Powershot, is guaranteed to hit the target. This consumes 35% of the player's special attack energy. This special attack is also shared with the magic comp bow.


### Magic longbow (u)
A magic longbow (u) is made using a knife with magic logs, requiring 85 Fletching and yielding 91.5 Fletching experience. Stringing a magic longbow (u) with a bowstring makes a magic longbow, also requiring 85 Fletching and yielding an additional 91.5 Fletching experience.
Creation
Products
Item sources


### Magic mix
Magic mix is a barbarian potion that boosts a player's Magic level by 4 and heals 6 Hitpoints. It is made by adding caviar to a magic potion(2), requiring level 83 Herblore and giving 57 experience. This mix can only be created after completing the Herblore part of Barbarian training with Otto Godblessed.
Drinking a sip of the potion gives the message "You drink the lumpy potion". If the player drinks all doses or empties the potion, it will become a regular empty vial.
Creation


### Magic ogre potion
The magic ogre potion is a quest item in the Watchtower quest. It is used to kill ogre shamans in the Ogre Enclave below Gu'Tanoth.
It is made by adding to a vial of water a guam leaf, jangerberries, and ground bat bones, in that order, and then bringing the resulting potion to the Watchtower Wizard to enchant. Making the potion requires 14 Herblore. This item will disappear when dropped. Before dropping the item, it will ask for confirmation, stating: "This item will likely break if you put it down here, and you will have to go looking for another."
After using it to kill the last Ogre shaman it will become an empty vial. The magic ogre potion cannot be made after the quest, and if one is brought to the Watchtower Wizard, he will confiscate the potion, claiming it is too dangerous.


### Magic potion
Magic potions are made by mixing lantadyme and then potato cactus in a vial of water, giving 172.5 Herblore experience. It requires level 76 Herblore to make.
Using a magic potion temporarily raises the player's Magic level by 4.
A player with a boosted Magic level will not be able to equip armour/weapons with Magic requirements above their unboosted level, but will be able to cast spells with a higher requirement.
After Barbarian Herblore Training is completed, caviar can be added to a magic potion(2) to produce a magic mix. This requires 83 Herblore and provides 57 Herblore experience. A magic mix has 2 doses, each of which heals 6 Hitpoints in addition to the usual magic potion boost.


### Magic pyre logs
Magic pyre logs may be used during the Shades of Mort'ton minigame to cremate the remains of Loar, Phrin, Riyl, Asyn, and Fiyr shades. They require level 80 Firemaking to light and grant 404.5 Firemaking experience when used to cremate a shade (606.7 with Morytania Diary 4 complete).
Preparation
To make Magic pyre logs, players must first obtain some sacred olive oil to use on your Magic logs. Sacred oil may be made during the Shades of Mort'ton minigame or the Shades of Mort'ton quest. To create the oil, players need to purchase normal olive oil from Razmire Keelgan's store in Mort'ton and then help to restore the temple that lies to the north of the town. This is best done on the Temple Building world - World 377.


### Magic shield
A magic shield is a shield that requires at least level 40 Defence to be worn. It is created by using a knife on two magic logs. Creating the shield requires level 87 in Fletching, and grants the player 183 experience.
It is used as the base for creating a red d'hide shield.
Creation
Products


### Magic shops
Magic shops are a type of store throughout Gielinor. They are usually represented by a  icon. Magic shops all sell runes, and some sell staves and other items related to Magic. There are 15 total magic shops in Old School RuneScape.
Locations
Free-to-play
Aubury's Rune Shop in Varrock
Betty's Magic Emporium in Port Sarim
Members
Ali's Discount Wares in Al Kharid
Amlodd's Magical Supplies in Prifddinas
Baba Yaga's Magic Shop on Lunar Isle
Battle Runes from the Mage of Zamorak
Lundail's Arena-side Rune Shop in Mage Arena
Magic Guild Store (Runes and Staves) in Yanille
Regath's Wares in Arceuus
Thyria's Wares in Arceuus
TzHaar-Mej-Roh's Rune Store in Mor Ul Rek
Tutab's Magical Market in Ape Atoll
Void Knight Magic Store in Void Knights' Outpost
The Runic Emporium in Cam Torum
Tal Teklan Rune ...


### Magic shortbow
The Magic shortbow is a bow that requires level 50 Ranged in order to use and can fire arrows up to amethyst.  It is one of the few shortbows in the game with a Special attack. The bow has an attack range of 7, with  longrange increasing attack range by 2.
To make this bow, players must use a magic shortbow (u) on a bow string. This requires 80 Fletching, and grants 83 experience. They can also be received from hard clue scrolls, or as a rare drop from spiritual rangers.
The Magic shortbow can be imbued by using a magic shortbow scroll on it to make a magic shortbow (i). The imbue increases its ranged attack bonus to +75 and lowers the special attack cost to 50%.
The magic shortbow is often the most powerful ranged weapon available to mid-level players.


### Magic shortbow (u)
A magic shortbow (u) is made using a knife with magic logs, requiring level 80 Fletching and yielding 83.3 Fletching experience. Stringing a magic shortbow (u) with a bowstring makes a magic shortbow, also requiring 80 Fletching and yielding an additional 83.3 Fletching experience.
Creation
Products
Item sources


### Magic stock
A magic stock is made by using a knife on magic logs, requiring 78 Fletching, and yielding 70 Fletching experience. Attaching dragon limbs to it makes a dragon crossbow (u), requiring 78 Fletching, and yielding 135 Fletching experience. A crossbow string can be attached to the unfinished crossbow to make a dragon crossbow.
Creation
Products


### Magic stone (Tears of Guthix)
Magic stones are used in the quest Tears of Guthix to make the stone bowl, using a Chisel. It is mined from magical rocks near Juna within the Chasm of Tears.
You must have a sapphire lantern with you to access the stones. Use the sapphire lantern on a light creature and select to go "across the chasm" and you will see the magical rocks. Without starting the Tears of Guthix quest, one can still mine the stone, but upon completing the quest it becomes unobtainable (along with the ability to craft stone bowls). The stone can be kept after the quest by dropping one before completing the quest and picking it back up after completing the quest.
Mining info
Item sources
Products


### Magic tablet
Magic tablets are stackable, single-use magic spells that are cached in soft clay for future use. Using a magic tablet activates the spell and consumes the tablet. While making a magic tablet for a spell requires the same Magic level (and active spellbook) as casting the spell outright, using one has no level requirements.
Making magic tablets
Magic tablets are created at a lectern suitable for the desired spell by combining soft clay with the same quantity of runes as for casting the spell. Just as with normal casting, elemental staves and charged tomes of fire, water, and earth can be used as stand-ins for the required runes.


### Magic totem
Magic totems are totems created in the Auburn Valley during the Vale Totems minigame. To construct it, players must first erect it by placing one magic log at a totem site. This grants Construction experience equal to the player's Construction level, provided they own a player-owned house. After erecting the totem, players can carve the totem into the 3 spirits nearby. The totem can then be decorated with 4 of any Fletching product made of magic logs to complete it.
Creation


### Magic tree
A magic tree is a rare type of tree that requires 75 Woodcutting[boostable] to chop down, granting 250 Woodcutting experience per set of magic logs received. The chop rate of magic logs is noticeably slower than that of yew trees. Thus, there is a low supply for the logs due to how long it takes to chop them. They are mainly cut by players looking to gain an income through a very low intensity method, rather than gaining experience due to their slow experience rate. Magic trees are unique among trees as the only tree with an area sound.
Tree locations
Notable Locations
Prifddinas - Close proximity to a bank. Able to receive Crystal shard drops.
South of Nemus Retreat - Close proximity to a bank and totem. Able to receive Ent seed and Loop half of key (moon key) drops.


### Magic tree (Construction)
A magic tree can be built in the big tree space and tree space of the garden in a player-owned house. It requires 75 Construction to build and when built, it gives 223 Construction and Farming experience.
The tree cannot be cut down by normal means with an axe to obtain logs.
Creation


### Magic tree (Farming)
Magic trees are Farming plants grown at level 75 Farming. A magic tree is grown by planting a Magic seed in a filled plant pot. A gardening trowel is needed to plant the seed, then it must be watered.
After 15 minutes or less, the planted seed will become a Magic sapling and can then be transferred to a tree patch. The tree patch must be raked clean of weeds. Compost, supercompost, or ultracompost may be added prior to planting, and once planted (using a spade), the nearby farmer may be paid to watch over your tree. Payment is 25 coconuts and optionally may be noted to save you space.
Planting the Magic tree sapling gives 145.5 farming experience. A healthy Magic tree, when checked, provides 13,768.3 farming experience.


### Magic/Experience table
This table shows all possible experience sources for Magic in the game, as well as all interactions that require a Magic level. It also lists the items involved in the interactions, as well as other skills involved in processing the item.
Normal spellbook
Ancient Magick
Lunar spellbook
Arceuus spellbook
Other experience sources


### Magical melee
Magical melee (also known as magic-based melee) attacks are attacks which roll for accuracy against your magic defensive bonuses but are fully protected against by the Protect from Melee prayer instead of the Protect from Magic prayer.
Note: Certain special attacks of melee weapons can deal a magical-melee attack (the Saradomin sword for example).
List of monsters that use magical-melee
Banshee, Screaming Banshee, Twisted Banshee, and Screaming Twisted Banshee
Pyrefiend, Pyrelord, Infernal pyrelord and Flaming pyrelord
Bloodveld, Insatiable Bloodveld, Mutated Bloodveld, Insatiable Mutated Bloodveld, and Reanimated Bloodveld.


### Magical rocks
Magical rocks are a rock that contains magic stones. Players with a Mining level of 20 can mine from these to progress in the quest Tears of Guthix.
Locations
Main drops


### Magical wheat
Magical wheat is a fast-growing variety of wheat which cannot be picked, but instead must be pushed through in order to reach the opposite side. Several gaps are able to form within the consecutive crop circles in Puro-Puro, where magical wheat can quickly grow, or wither away, allowing players to walk across normally in the latter case.
Entering a crop circle through the overworld, as opposed to using the permanent portal in Zanaris, will give the player an additional push speed when pushing through magical wheat, known as the Farmer's Affinity bonus. Players who wish to receive a small amount of Strength experience when passing through wheat, can turn this on by talking to Elnock Inquisitor.


### Mahogany tree (Farming)
Mahogany trees are trees that may be grown with the Farming skill. Level 55 farmers may grow a mahogany tree by planting a mahogany sapling in a hardwood tree patch using a spade. When planted, the nearby farmer will watch over a growing mahogany tree in exchange for 25 Yanillian hops, which may be noted.
A mahogany tree sapling will take 8 hardwood growth ticks (at most 5,120 minutes or approximately 3 days, 13 hours, and 20 minutes) to grow to mature. Once mature, the tree grows into a mahogany tree which can be harvested for mahogany logs.
Planting a mahogany sapling in a hardwood tree patch grants 63 Farming experience. Checking the health of a mahogany tree grants 15,720 Farming experience.


### Maniacal monkey (Hunter)
The maniacal monkey is a creature that players can capture starting at level 60 Hunter, granting 1,000 Hunter experience. Completion of the Monkey Madness II quest is also required.
Unlike most hunter creatures, maniacal monkeys are not killed; rather, when successfully captured, they will shed their tails to escape, beginning the process of regenerating their tail. The tail will grow bit by bit, with the examine text reflecting when they are able to fall for the deadfall traps once more.
Locations
In Glough's Laboratory, which is located within Kruk's Dungeon.
The easiest way to reach this location is by taking the gnome glider to Ape Atoll. The dungeon is accessible by investigating the jungle grass just south of the glider destination.


### Maple tree (Construction)
A maple tree can be built in the big tree space and tree space of the garden in a player-owned house. It requires 45 Construction to build and when built, it gives 122 Construction and Farming experience.
The tree cannot be cut down by normal means with an axe to obtain logs.
Creation


### Maple tree (Farming)
Maple trees are Farming plants grown at level 45 Farming. A maple tree is grown by planting a maple seed in a filled plant pot. A gardening trowel is needed to plant the seed, then it must be watered.
After 15 minutes or less, the planted seed will become a Maple sapling and can then be transferred to a tree patch. The tree patch must be raked clean of weeds. Compost or Super Compost may be added prior to planting, and once planted (using a spade), the nearby farmer may be paid to watch over your tree. Payment is 1 Basket of oranges and optionally may be noted to save you space.
Planting the Maple tree sapling gives 45 farming experience. A healthy Maple tree, when checked, provides 3403.4 farming experience.


### Maximum magic hit
Maximum magic hit is the maximum damage a player can deal in a single magic attack. It is affected by player's Magic level, equipment and other special bonuses.
In most cases, the Tumeken's shadow provides the highest maximum magic hit possible. The exceptions to this are the Volatile nightmare staff's special attack, the Accursed sceptre's special attack while in the wilderness, the Accursed sceptre's against Revenants in the wilderness while wearing an Amulet of avarice and having Forinthry Surge, and barrage spells when hitting up to nine targets.
Calculating maximum magic hit
All Magic damage starts with a magic attack in the form of a spellbook combat spell, a charged powered staff, or one of the three magic special attacks.


### Mining
Mining is a skill that allows players to obtain ores and gems from rocks. The higher a player's Mining level is the more likely they are to successfully extract ore. With ores, a player can then either smelt bars and make equipment using the Smithing skill or sell them for profit. Mining areas are identified with a regular pickaxe  icon, and mining shops are identified with a gold pickaxe  icon on the minimap and world map.
How to mine
The player can click on rocks in a mine to mine them, as long as they are wielding a pickaxe or have one in their inventory. After mining for a short amount of time, the player will obtain an ore or a gemstone, depending on the rock mined. Ores can be used for Smithing, and gemstones for Crafting. Rocks cannot be mined with a full inventory.


### Mining Guild
The Mining Guild, located in and beneath Falador, is a guild for expert miners available to players with at least 60 Mining (can be boosted). The mine is accessible from either the Mining Guild's above-ground complex in the south-east of the city, or through the gate at the southern end of the Dwarven Mine. Both of these entrances are guarded by dwarves who will answer questions about the guild and stop players without the requirements from entering the guild. The guildmaster, Gadrin, also sells the Mining cape to those who have achieved level 99 Mining.
This mine is one of many where three iron rocks can be mined without moving, thus ideal for power-mining.
Transportation
Players may use a skills necklace to teleport to the underground entrance.


### Mining cape
A Mining cape can be purchased for 99,000 coins alongside the Mining hood from Gadrin at the Mining Guild entrance by players who have achieved level 99 Mining. It is the Cape of Accomplishment, also commonly called a skill cape, for the Mining skill. Mining capes are brown-greyish in colour, have the mining skill icon, and have a light blue trim if the player has more than one level 99 skill.
Like all skill capes, the Mining cape gives +9 to all defensive stats, and also a +4 bonus to prayer if it is trimmed, which requires a separate skill at level 99. The cape is automatically trimmed if this condition is met.


### Mining enhancers
Mining enhancers are items that aid the player in Mining. Their benefits range from invisible mining boosts, to giving a chance to mining an extra ore from a rock. The effects of mining enhancers stack with each other when worn.
List of mining enhancers
List of affected rocks
The following is a list of all rocks and sources that can benefit from mining enhancers' extra resources.
Exceptions
Some rocks are not affected by mining enhancers that provide extra resources.


### Mining gloves
Mining gloves are a pair of gloves purchasable from Belona's shop, Mining Guild Mineral Exchange, for 40 unidentified minerals. Despite technically only requiring level 20 Mining to equip, level 60 is required to enter the guild to purchase them.
By speaking to Belona with these gloves and the superior mining gloves, players can pay her 40 unidentified minerals to combine them into a pair of expert mining gloves.
This item can be stored in the armour case of a costume room.
Effects
When mining certain rocks with the gloves equipped, the rock will not be depleted one time, and the player will continue mining the rock until it depletes. This effect stacks with other mining enhancers.
The rocks listed below are affected by the gloves' effect:
Products


### Mining helmet
A mining helmet is an item primarily dropped by Cave goblin miners. It is dropped unlit, but can be lit by players who have a Firemaking level of 65. It can also be obtained by showing the brooch to Mistag after completing The Lost Tribe quest, or purchased from Miltog's Lamps in the Dorgesh-Kaan market place. It has the same stats as an iron med helm.
This is one of six light sources that can be equipped; the others being the Kandarin headgear, the Firemaking cape, the max cape, the Abyssal Lantern, and the Bruma torch.
A lit mining helmet does not go out on its own, so you don't need a tinderbox when visiting a dark place if you have this helmet. You can extinguish it if you want it unlit. It can however, be 'Magically extinguished' when in combat with Scabarites.


### Mining shops
Mining shops are a type of store throughout Gielinor. The stores are represented by a  icon. Mining shops sell items used in the Mining skill. There are twelve Mining shops in Old School RuneScape.
Locations
Free-to-play
Drogo's Mining Emporium in Dwarven Mines
Nurmof's Pickaxe Shop in Dwarven Mines
Yarsul's Prodigious Pickaxes in the Mining Guild
Members
Deepfin Point Ore Exchange in Deepfin Point
Gwyn's Mining Emporium in Prifddinas
Mistrock Mining Supplies in Mistrock
Pickaxe-Is-Mine in Keldagrim
Port Roberts Ore Stall in Port Roberts
Thirus Urkar's Fine Dynamite Store in Lovakengj
Tizoro's Pickaxes in Cam Torum
Toothy's Pickaxes in Lovakengj
TzHaar-Hur-Rin's Ore and Gem Store in Mor Ul Rek


### Mining/Experience table
This table shows all possible experience sources for Mining in the game, as well as all interactions that require a Mining level. It also lists the items involved in the interactions, as well as other skills involved in processing the item.


### Monkey bars (Brimhaven Agility Arena)
The Monkey bars are an Agility obstacle found within the Brimhaven Agility Arena. Failing to cross will cause the player to fall and take damage; they will need to go up a nearby climbing rope to get back onto the course.
Agility info


### Monkeybars (Ape Atoll Agility Course)
The monkeybars are an Agility obstacle found within the Ape Atoll Agility Course. An Agility level of 48 and an equipped small ninja, medium ninja or Kruk monkey greegree is required to pass the obstacle, which will then grant the player 40 Agility experience upon completing this section of the course. Failing this obstacle will send the player player back to the course entrance next to the signpost.
If attempting to swing across this obstacle whilst in human form, the character will slip off and a message will appear in the chatbox that says "Your hands slip from the rung... ...you're not monkey enough to try this!"
Agility info


### Monkeybars (Shayzien Agility Course)
The monkeybars are an Agility obstacle found within the Shayzien Agility Course, granting the player 8 Agility experience.
Agility info


### Monkeybars (Yanille Agility Dungeon)
Monkeybars are an Agility shortcut located inside the Yanille Agility Dungeon. An Agility level of 57 is required to use the shortcut. It provides access to the Chaos druids deeper in the dungeon, as well as a lockpick respawn down the nearby stairs. There's a chance of failing this shortcut and falling into a lower level crawling with poisonous spiders.
Clicking the Monkeybars without moving the camera is an Idle training method and can gain you up to 13,333xp per hour.
Agility info
Success chance
The chance to successfully swing across the monkey bars ranges from around 80% at level 57 Agility, up to a 100% success rate at level 75.


### Nardah Hunter Shop.
The Nardah Hunter Shop is a shop in Nardah, selling Hunter items, owned by Artimeus, and a little north-east of the bank. It is one of four Hunter shops, the others being Aleck's Hunter Emporium in Yanille,  Elder Strom's Hunting Stall in The Summer Shore and Imia's Supplies in the Hunter Guild.
Stock


### Necropolis Hunter area
The necropolis Hunter area is a small Hunter training area located in the westernmost part of the necropolis, just south of Sophanem. Access to the area requires partial completion of Beneath Cursed Sands.
Players will feel the impact of the desert heat while hunting in the area, and as such are recommended to bring heat resistant clothing if training there for an extended stretch of time. There are three waterskin(4) spawns just to the east of the traps.
Transportation
Travelling north from the fairy ring AKP located just off the coast by the mine, which requires 62 Agility to cross from. The fairy ring becomes accessible once players access the necropolis during Beneath Cursed Sands.


### Oak tree (Construction)
An oak tree can be built in the big tree space and tree space of the garden in a player-owned house. It requires 15 Construction to build and when built, it gives 70 Construction and Farming experience.
The tree cannot be cut down by normal means with an axe to obtain logs.
Creation


### Oak tree (Farming)
Oak trees can be grown by members with level 15 Farming. Players may plant an acorn into a plant pot with a gardening trowel to get an oak seedling, after using a watering can to water the seedling, players will have to wait until it grows into an oak sapling (seedlings can still grow if banked).
Oak saplings can then be planted in a tree patch, granting 14 experience, a further 467.3 experience upon reaching full growth. A payment of a full basket of tomatoes can be paid to a nearby gardener to watch over oak trees. If buying the acorn and tomatoes on the Grand Exchange, it will cost around 345 per tree, assuming one pays a gardener.


### Obstacle net (Barbarian Outpost Agility Course)
The obstacle net is an Agility obstacle found within the Barbarian Outpost Agility Course. Passing the obstacle requires 35 Agility and will award 8.2 Agility experience.
Agility info


### Obstacle net (Gnome Stronghold Agility Course)
The Obstacle net is an Agility obstacle found within the Gnome Stronghold Agility Course. An Agility level of one is required to pass the obstacle, which will then grant the player 10 Agility experience. It is not possible to fail this obstacle.
Agility info


### Obstacle pipe (Gnome Stronghold Agility Course)
The obstacle pipe is the final Agility obstacle on the Gnome Stronghold Agility Course. It requires 1 Agility to pass which grants 10 Agility experience. It is not possible to fail this obstacle.
Agility info


### Obstacle pipe (Wilderness Agility Course)
The obstacle pipe is an Agility obstacle found within the Wilderness Agility Course. An Agility level of 49 is required to pass the obstacle, which will then grant the player 12.5 Agility experience.
Agility info


### Obstacle pipe (Yanille Agility Dungeon)
An obstacle pipe is an Agility shortcut. It is the second obstacle in the Yanille Agility Dungeon, and traversing it leads to a group of skeletons. Failing the pipe obstacle will cause the player to take damage, and become stuck for a short time.
Agility info


### Orange salamander (Hunter)
The orange salamander is a salamander that players can capture with the Hunter skill at level 47 or above, granting 224 Hunter experience. Orange salamanders may be assigned as a hunters' rumour task by Guild Hunters Gilman, Cervus, Ornus, or Aco. Catching one at any location is a requirement for the Medium Desert Diary.
Location
Hunter info
The chance of a successful catch is approximately 56% beginning at level 47, and 100% after level 88.
Hunting technique
The hunting technique is the same as for other salamanders. Players must bring a rope and small fishing net for each net trap they plan to set up, and take care to avoid desert heat – there are three waterskin(4) spawns near the Necropolis Hunter area.  Clicking on a young tree will set the trap.


### Ourania Hunter area
The Ourania Hunter area is located west of the Battlefield and north of the Observatory. Players with 59 Hunter can catch red salamanders here via net trapping, granting 272 experience each. The area is notable for being the only place where red salamanders were located, prior to the introduction of Sailing on November 19th, 2025, and the addition of Charred Island.
Transportation
From fastest to slowest:
Ourania Teleport takes you directly to the salamanders.
Use a spirit tree teleport to the Battlefield and walk west.
Use an Ardougne cloak 1 teleport to the Ardougne Monastery and walk west.
Hunter creatures
The following Hunter creatures is found in this area:
To trap red salamanders, use a small fishing net and rope on a young tree.


### Pay-to-play Firemaking training
This article gives tips about training the Firemaking skill.
Levels 1–99: Burning logs
Burning logs is the fastest way to train Firemaking. The best place to do this is at the eastern part of the Grand Exchange. The area has a lot of empty space and the bank is only one tile away from an area a log can be burned. When correctly timed, the player can move to another square in between lighting the logs, which allows the player to burn the logs in any formation. With fast enough banking and accurate clicks, it is possible to keep lighting the logs tick-perfectly every 4 ticks. Having noted logs in the inventory and unnoting them at the banker is recommended over using the bank interface.
An easier but a slower method is to simply burn logs in a row from east to west.


### Pay-to-play Fishing training
This guide outlines the best methods for training the Fishing skill.
Equipment
Fishing uses two types of items, divided into consumables and equipment. Consumables are used up at the rate of one item for each fish caught and are stackable, while the equipment is non-stackable and reusable.
Net fishing: Small fishing net, not consumable.
Drift net fishing: Drift net, consumable. Recommended items: Flippers, diving apparatus, fishbowl helmet, and a Trident, as well as ways to restore run energy.
Bait fishing: Fishing rod and some fishing bait.
Fly fishing: Fly fishing rod and feathers for bait.
Harpooning: Harpoon (or bare hands if the player has completed Barbarian Training miniquest), not consumable.


### Pay-to-play Magic training
Magic can be trained passively while training other skills. The passive training methods can be tedious or expensive before High Level Alchemy becomes available, so consider low-effort or cheaper alternatives to get through the early levels.
At higher levels, Magic can be trained much faster through casting multi-target burst or barrage spells on Ancient Magicks. An efficient way to do this is on Slayer tasks, as certain Slayer monsters (such as dust devils and Greater Nechryael) can be bursted or barraged for fast Slayer experience.
In terms of macro-efficiency, defensive attack style may be used to gain more overall experience (1 Defence xp + 1.33 Magic xp on defensive vs 2 Magic xp on standard) when training via combat.


### Pay-to-play Prayer training
Despite the high cost to Train Prayer effectively, it is a very important skill due to what it provides in combat utility.
Many quests recommend 43 Prayer, so that all 3 protection prayers are available for use. Important skill milestones include Level 50 for completing all quests, Level 77 for unlocking all prayers and Level 85 for completing all Achievement Diaries. A higher Prayer level also allows the player to restore more prayer points per dose of prayer potion/super restore/sanfew serum.
Starting off
Early levels can be skipped by completing quests that give Prayer experience.
Completing The Restless Ghost, Priest in Peril, Recruitment Drive, and Holy Grail will grant a total of 14,531 Prayer experience, which will get the player from level 1 to 30.


### Pay-to-play Woodcutting training
This guide outlines the best methods for training the Woodcutting skill. The profit from Woodcutting is low compared to other money-making methods and the profitable methods offer very slow experience per hour. Some players may find it more beneficial to perform the fastest experience methods and use the saved time to make money from other activities.
For maximum theoretical experience rates for certain Woodcutting training methods, see this page.
Equipment
The only item required to cut wood is an axe, either equipped or in a player's inventory. Felling axes offer 10% more Woodcutting experience than their regular counterparts when used with Forester's rations. Using the best felling axe available will offer the fastest experience rates.


### Penguin Agility Course
The Penguin Agility Course is an Agility training area found whilst exploring the KGP Headquarters located on the Iceberg. This course is available to players with boosted level 30 Agility and partial completion of Cold War. To access the Agility course, the player has to wear a clockwork suit.
The Agility course rewards 540 Agility experience per completed lap. With an average time of 65 seconds per lap, it is possible to get upwards of 30,000 Agility experience per hour from this course. At lower Agility levels expect to get around 22,000–27,000 Agility experience per hour, depending on concentration levels.
This course has the highest base chance to receive the giant squirrel. At level 99 Agility it would take an average of 132 hours to get the giant squirrel.


### Pile of rubble (Yanille Agility Dungeon)
The pile of rubble is an Agility shortcut in the Yanille Agility Dungeon. It provides access to an area with 4 chaos druids and Salarin the twisted.
Agility info


### Pirate (Thieving)
Pirates are a stronger variant of pirate who can be pickpocketed at level 60 Thieving, granting 72 experience alongside some loot.
As pickpocketable pirates are exclusive to certain islands at sea, the minimum Sailing level to steal from them is 47, the level required to dock at the Onyx Crest.
One piece of the medallion fragment is also obtainable from pickpocketable pirates as common loot, although they are exclusively obtained from those found at the Onyx Crest.
Locations
Drops
Drop rates are estimated based on 14,220 samples from the Drop Rate Project, unless otherwise cited.
100%
Weapons and armour
Runes and ammunition
Coins
Other
Gem drop table
There is a 1/128 chance of rolling the gem drop table.


### Piscatoris Hunter area
The Piscatoris Woodland was one of three completely new areas opened up with the Hunter update. It is used as a main Hunter area for levels 3 to 69+. Making up most of Piscatoris, it can be found south of the Piscatoris Fishing Colony, west of the Tree Gnome Stronghold and just north of the Eagles' Peak. You can use the fairy ring code AKQ. Several types of hunting can be done here.
Transportation
Teleport there by using a Piscatoris teleport scroll.
Players can use the fairy ring code AKQ to get to this area.
Alternatively, run north-west from Ardougne or the entrance to the Tree Gnome Stronghold, then take the boat by talking to Kathy Corkat, who is located at the transportation icon just east of the Eagles' Peak, at a cost of 50 coins (free after Swan Song).


### Prayer
Prayer is a non-members combat skill, trained by using remains in various ways.
Bones can be buried, offered to gilded altars with incense burners, offered to the altar in the Chaos Temple, converted into Ectofuntus, converted to Blessed bone shards and offered at the Libation bowl, or have Sinister Offering cast on them. Demonic ashes can be scattered or converted into experience with Demonic Offering. Players can also kill monsters that were reanimated with reanimation spells, or cremate shade remains to unlock chests. These chests can drop pieces of the zealot's robes, a skilling outfit which gives a 1.25% chance per piece to save most remains when used.
Prayers are unlocked as the level in the skill goes up.


### Prayer enhance
A prayer enhance is a potion that restores the player's prayer points over the course of 275 or 290 seconds, appearing to vary per player; those who get a game message in the chatbox that the potion is about to expire has the effect last for a total of 290 seconds. However, those that do not have the effect last for a total of 275 seconds.
It can be made with 65 Herblore by using a buchu leaf with a water-filled gourd vial while having a cicely in the inventory.
This potion is the standard variant of the prayer enhance potions, and cannot be taken out of the Chambers of Xeric.
Effects
Both the total amount of times the restoration effect will trigger, as well as the duration of the interval between activations, scale with the player's Prayer level.


### Prayer enhance (+)
A prayer enhance (+) is a potion that restores the player's prayer points over the course of 4 minutes and 50 seconds. At level 82+ Prayer, one prayer point is restored every 6 game ticks.
It can be made with 78 Herblore by using a buchu leaf with a water-filled gourd vial while having a cicely in the inventory. Making this potion gives 26.5 herblore experience.
This potion is the strong variant of the prayer enhance potions, and cannot be taken out of the Chambers of Xeric.
Creation
Effects
Both the total amount of times the restoration effect will trigger, as well as the duration of the interval between activations, scale with the player's Prayer level.


### Prayer enhance (-)
A prayer enhance (-) is a potion that restores the player's prayer points over the course of 275 or 290 seconds, appearing to vary per player; those who get a game message in the chatbox that the potion is about to expire has the effect last for a total of 290 seconds. However, those that do not have the effect last for a total of 275 seconds.
It can only be made in the Chambers of Xeric with 52 Herblore by using a buchu leaf with a water-filled gourd vial while having a cicely in the inventory.
This potion is the weakest variant of the prayer enhance potions, and cannot be taken out of the Chambers of Xeric.
Effects
Both the total amount of times the restoration effect will trigger, as well as the duration of the interval between activations, scale with the player's Prayer level.


### Prayer items
Prayer items are equipment which give Prayer bonuses when worn.
How Prayer items work
Each Prayer bonus point increases the time it takes for prayer points to deplete by 3.33% additively.
For example, having +30 Prayer bonus would make Prayers last 100% longer (twice as long). Protect from Melee would then drain 1 Prayer point every 6 seconds, instead of every 3 seconds. The highest Prayer bonus possible is 73.
Headgear
Robes/Armour
Body
Legs
Boots
Gloves
Capes
Weapons
Shields
Jewellery
Neck
Rings
Ammunition
Highest Prayer bonus
The following armour gives the highest possible Prayer bonus.
Prayer


### Prayer mix
Prayer mix is a barbarian potion that restores a player's prayer points by 7-31 and heals 6 Hitpoints. If a holy wrench is carried, it will restore 8-33 prayer points. It is made by adding caviar to a prayer potion(2), requiring level 42 Herblore and giving 29 experience. This mix can only be created after completing the Herblore part of Barbarian training with Otto Godblessed.
Drinking a sip of the potion gives the message "You drink the lumpy potion". If the player drinks all doses or empties the potion, it will become a regular empty vial.
Maximum prayer restoration
Creation
Item sources
Prayer mix(1)
Prayer mix(2)


### Prayer points
Prayer points are a measure of the player's ability to use prayers and are measured in whole-point increments. A player's maximum, unboosted number of prayer points is equal to their Prayer level. Prayer points can be restored a number of ways, including praying at an altar, using a rejuvenation pool (or better) in a player-owned house, or drinking a dose of a prayer potion.
The player's current prayer points are displayed on the game's skills tab and are displayed by the minimap if the Data orb option is toggled on. The number of prayer points the player has remaining is an indication of how long a player can use prayers before having to restore them.


### Prayer potion
A Prayer potion is a potion made by using snape grass on a ranarr potion (unf), requiring 38 Herblore, yielding a Prayer potion(3) and 87.5 Herblore experience. A dose of Prayer potion restores Prayer points equal to 7 + 25% of the player's current Prayer level, rounded down. If a Prayer cape, Max cape or ring of the gods (i) is equipped or a Prayer cape, Max cape or holy wrench is in the player's inventory, the restore increases to 7 + 27% of the player's current Prayer level, rounded down. It provides less Prayer point restoration than a super restore potion by 1 point per dose.
Prayer potions are always in high demand due to use of Prayers during combat and a need to restore points without travelling to an altar.


### Prayer regeneration potion
A Prayer regeneration potion is a potion made by using Aldarium on a huasca potion (unf), requiring 58 Herblore and granting 132 Herblore experience.
A dose of prayer regeneration restores one prayer point every 12 ticks over 8 minutes, restoring a total of 66 prayer points per dose. This is a similar effect to the prayer enhance potions from the Chambers of Xeric, though weaker and with a longer duration.
The Holy wrench, Prayer cape, and Ring of the gods (i) do not affect the amount of prayer restored at all. However, the latter's large Prayer bonus can be useful when combined with the potion. With at least +42 Prayer bonus, protection prayers will drain slowly enough that the prayer regeneration effect will upkeep the player's prayer without the need for additional prayer potions.


### Prayer/Experience table
This table shows all possible experience sources for Prayer in the game, as well as all interactions that require a Prayer level. It also lists the items involved in the interactions, as well as other skills involved in processing the item.


### Rainbow crab (Hunter)
Rainbow crabs can be caught by crab trapping on The Crown Jewel with level 77 Hunter. In order to catch the crabs, a crab trap must first be built over an empty hole and baited with fine fish offcuts. Catching a rainbow crab awards 216 Hunter experience. The crab can then either be prepared with a knife to produce raw rainbow crab meat, which can then be cooked into rainbow crab meat, or the crab can be processed with a pestle and mortar to produce rainbow crab paste, a Herblore secondary used in the creation of Armadyl brew potions.
Players can expect rates of around 155,000 Hunter experience an hour when actively baiting the traps, consuming ~765 Fine fish offcuts in the process.
Location
Hunter info


### Ranged
Ranged is one of the three combat classes in Old School RuneScape. It involves using bows, crossbows, blowpipes, and thrown weapons to damage opponents from a distance, and Ranged armour can mostly be made from animal hides. Players who specialise in this skill are known as rangers or archers.
The combat triangle dictates that rangers are strong against mages but weak against melee fighters.
The ability to attack from a distance means that a player can safespot a melee monster while fighting from safety. Keep in mind that some melee monsters have high Ranged Defence, so a high Ranged level may be needed. Crossbows are useful against monsters with high Defence, as they are very accurate.


### Ranged magic
Ranged magic (also known as ranged-based magic) attacks are projectiles that are less likely to hit players wearing armour with high Ranged defence bonuses, but are fully protected against by the Protect from Magic prayer instead of Protect from Missiles.
List of monsters that use ranged magic
Kree'arra
Spinolyp
Torcher
Note: The monsters above are present in constant-combat environments in which you will also be taking other forms of damage (melee, ranged, traditional magic) - decide on equipment accordingly.
Magical ranged
Magical melee
Ranged melee


### Red crab (Hunter)
Red crabs can be caught by crab trapping on Pandemonium. In order to catch the crabs, a crab trap must first be built over an empty hole and baited with fish offcuts. Catching a red crab awards 64 Hunter experience. The crab can then either be prepared with a knife to produce raw red crab meat, which can then be cooked into red crab meat, or the crab can be processed with a pestle and mortar to produce crab paste, a Herblore secondary used in the creation of Anti-odour salt and Super hunter potions.
Location
Hunter info


### Red salamander (Hunter)
The red salamander is a salamander that players can capture with the Hunter skill at level 59 or above, granting 272 Hunter experience. Red salamanders are found in the Ourania Hunter area near the Khazard Battlefield and on the Charred Island.
Red salamanders may be assigned as a hunters' rumour task by Guild Hunters Gilman, Ornus, Aco, Teco, or Wolf.
Catching one is a requirement for the hard Ardougne Diary.
Location
Hunter info
The chance of a successful catch is approximately 56% beginning at level 59, and 94% at level 99.
Hunting
Hunting red salamanders is the same as all other salamanders. Players must bring a rope and small fishing net for each net trap they plan to set up. Clicking on a young tree will set the trap.


### Redwood tree (Farming)
The redwood tree is a Farming tree that requires 90 Farming to grow, and 90 Woodcutting to chop. It's grown by planting a redwood sapling in a redwood tree patch. Checking the healthy tree awards 22,450 Farming experience. Alexandra will offer to protect the growing tree in exchange for six dragonfruits. Players cannot clear the patch on their own, and must pay Alexandra 2,000 coins to do so.
Unlike the redwoods in the Woodcutting Guild, player-grown redwoods have four spaces for chopping, each with a 1/11 chance to be depleted per log cut. When a slot is depleted, it will take 200 ticks (2 minutes) to respawn. Additionally, it is possible to tick manipulate the player-planted redwoods, similar to teak trees on Fossil Island. Up to 180k experience per hour can be achieved with this method.


### Rellekka Hunter area
The Rellekka Hunter area is one of several Hunter training areas. It is located north-east of Rellekka, near the entrance to the dwarven city of Keldagrim.
Transportation
Several fairy rings can be found nearby, although the closest is near the Keldagrim entrance and can be reached from Zanaris using the combination DKS.
The eagle transport system connects the Eagles' Peak Dungeon to the cave hidden on the area's east side. 35 Agility and completion of Eagles' Peak is required for its use, however.
Players can also move their player-owned house to Rellekka (requiring  30  and 10,000) and by using Teleport to House spell or tablet; they just have to head north-east passing through the mine and head north.


### Rod Fishing spot (anglerfish)
Fishing spots can be found on Great Kourend. These spots are the only fishing spots where you can fish Raw anglerfish. Anglerfish fishing spots have a highly random movement timer, ranging from as little as 8 ticks (4.8 seconds) up to 830 ticks (approximately 8.3 minutes), making them considered an unreliable AFK fishing option.
Location
Fish


### Rod Fishing spot (infernal eel)
Rod Fishing spots can be found in the Tzhaar City. These spots are used to fish infernal eels. These can later be cracked open for Tokkul, onyx bolt tips, and lava scale shards.
Location
Fish


### Rod Fishing spot (lure, bait)
Rod Fishing spots can be found throughout Gielinor along rivers. They can be fished for raw pike, raw trout, raw salmon or raw rainbow fish depending on the bait and fishing rod you use.
Locations
Lure (feathers)
Bait
Lure (stripy feathers)
Conditional drops
The following table shows items that can be received in addition to the main resource.
Drop rates are estimated based on 215,713 samples from the Drop Rate Project, unless otherwise cited.


### Rosewood tree (Farming)
Rosewood trees are trees that may be grown with the Farming skill. Level 92 farmers may grow a rosewood tree by planting a rosewood sapling in a hardwood tree patch using a spade. When planted, the nearby farmer will watch over a growing rosewood tree in exchange for 8 dragonfruit, which may be noted.
A rosewood tree sapling will take 9 hardwood growth ticks (at most 5,760 minutes or 4 days) to grow to mature. Once mature, the tree grows into a rosewood tree which can be harvested for rosewood logs.
Planting a rosewood sapling in a hardwood tree patch grants 252 Farming experience. Checking the health of a rosewood tree grants 23,100 Farming experience. If buying the rosewood seed and dragonfruit on the Grand Exchange, it will cost around 164,212 per tree, assuming one pays a gardener.


### Smithing
Smithing is a production skill through which players create a wide variety of metal items from ore and metal bars. It is the companion skill of Mining, which generates raw materials used in Smithing. Ores acquired from Mining are smelted into metal bars at furnaces, and then hammered into items at anvils. Many smithable items are useful in combat, quests, and the training of a number of other skills such as Crafting and Fletching.
Smelting
Smelting is the process of extracting a metal bar from a metal ore. To obtain a metal bar, a player must use an ore of the desired metal with a furnace. Some metals require multiple ores, and some require coal to be added to the furnace to raise the furnace's temperature.


### Smithing/Experience table
This table shows all possible experience sources for Smithing in the game, as well as all interactions that require a Smithing level. It also lists the items involved in the interactions, as well as other skills involved in processing the item.


### Special attacks
Special attacks, also commonly referred to as specs or specials, are unique abilities offered by various weapons. Unlike passive effects, the player must choose to activate the special attack by clicking on the special attack bar or special attack orb, found under the Combat Options interface or the minimap respectively. Doing so will consume energy.
Special attacks offer a variety of benefits, including temporary boosts in stats, restoration of health or prayer, and extra damage or accuracy. If a weapon has a special attack, hovering over the special attack bar, or spec bar, will show the player a tooltip with a weapon's unique special attack name and description.


### Spirit Tree (Farming)
Spirit Trees are trees that may be grown with the Farming skill. Level 83 farmers may grow a spirit tree by planting a spirit sapling in a spirit tree patch using a spade. Spirit trees may be tended by gnome gardeners for 5 monkey nuts, 1 monkey bar, and 1 ground suqah tooth.
The growing time for a spirit tree is about 58 hours and 40 minutes. Growing a spirit tree yields 19,501.3 Farming experience, which is the sum of planting (199.5 experience) and checking health (19,301.8 experience).
Players can plant their own spirit tree from a spirit sapling in their Superior Garden at level 75 Construction. Doing so also requires level 83 in Farming. Boosts can be used. This tree does not count towards the number of spirit trees that may be planted at one time.


### Strength
Strength is a player's power in melee combat. As a player raises their Strength level, they can deal more damage against opponents. A high Strength level is often favoured by players over their Attack level because it raises max hit, helping to deal more damage compared to training Attack or Defence.
Combat
Players may receive Strength experience during combat, and the amount of experience gained is dependent on the attack style being used. Of the four melee attack styles available, Strength experience is only awarded when fighting in the aggressive or controlled stances.
When fighting in the aggressive stance, 4*x Strength experience is granted per hit, where x is the amount of damage dealt. Fighting using the controlled stance, however, grants 1.


### Strength mix
Strength mix is a barbarian potion that boosts a player's Strength level by 3 + 10%, and heals 3 Hitpoints. It can be made by adding roe or caviar to a strength potion(2), requiring level 14 Herblore and giving 17 experience. Adding caviar will not increase the amount of health restored. This mix can only be created after completing the Herblore part of the Barbarian Training miniquest with Otto Godblessed.
Drinking a sip of the potion gives the message "You drink the lumpy potion". If the player drinks all doses or empties the potion, it will become a regular empty vial.
Strength boost by level
Creation
Item sources
Strength mix(2)


### Strength potion
A Strength potion is a potion that can be made by free-to-play players in addition to members. Both non-members and members can make a strength potion (4) by providing the Apothecary in Varrock with 5 coins, a limpwurt root, and red spiders' eggs. Members who have attained at least level 12 Herblore additionally have the ability to use a limpwurt root on a tarromin potion (unf), yielding a Strength potion(3) and 50 Herblore experience. A dose of Strength potion provides a temporary skill boost to Strength equal to 3 + 10% of the player's current Strength level, rounded down. This is less than the super Strength's and super combat potion's boost of 5 + 15% of the player's current Strength level, rounded down.


### Super attack
A super attack is a potion made by using an eye of newt on an irit potion (unf), requiring 45 Herblore, yielding a super attack(3) and 100 Herblore experience. A dose of super attack provides a temporary skill boost to Attack equal to 5 + 15% of the player's current Attack level, rounded down.
Super attacks along with super strengths are popular for player killing, bossing, Slayer, or melee training.
Crystal dust may be added to super attack, 1 dust per dose of potion, to make a divine super attack potion, requiring 70 Herblore.
A super attack(4), super defence(4), super strength(4), and a torstol can be combined to make a super combat potion, requiring 90 Herblore.


### Super defence
A super defence is a potion made by using white berries on a cadantine potion (unf), requiring 66 Herblore, yielding a super defence(3) and 150 Herblore experience. A dose of super defence provides a temporary skill boost to Defence equal to 5 + 15% of the player's current Defence level, rounded down.
Crystal dust may be added to super defence, 1 dust per dose of potion, to make a divine super defence potion, requiring 70 Herblore.
A super defence(4), super attack(4), super strength(4), and a torstol can be combined to make a super combat potion, requiring 90 Herblore.
After Barbarian Herblore Training, caviar can be added to a super defence(2), requiring 71 Herblore, yielding a super def. mix and 50 Herblore experience. A super def.


### Super fishing potion
A super fishing potion is a potion that provides a +6 boost to Fishing. It is made by using a haddock eye on an unfinished pillar potion, requiring 62 Herblore and granting 140.5 Herblore experience.
Creation
Price Per Dose


### Super hunter potion
A super hunter potions is a potion that provides a +6 boost to Hunter. It is made by using crab paste on an unfinished pillar potion, requiring 67 Herblore and granting 154 Herblore experience.
Creation
Price Per Dose


### Super magic potion
A super magic potion is a potion only usable in the Nightmare Zone, costing 250 points per dose. It boosts one's Magic stat by 15% + 5. Because of this, it makes spells a great deal more accurate while providing lower levels the ability to use spells far above their Magic level. For example, one with 78 Magic could sip this potion to be able to cast Ice Barrage. At 99 Magic, this potion will boost one's Magic level to 118. You cannot use this to enchant jewellery.
Compared to the Saturated heart, it grants a stronger Magic boost, but it decays over time unlike the boost from the saturated heart.
Magic boost by level
Magic boost is calculated with: ⌊MagicLevel×15100⌋+5
Stat boosts will decay at a rate of 1 point per minute, or 90 seconds with the use of Preserve.
Super magic potion (1)


### Super strength
A super strength is a potion made by using a limpwurt root on a kwuarm potion (unf), requiring 55 Herblore, yielding a super strength(3) and 125 Herblore experience. A dose of super strength provides a temporary skill boost to Strength equal to 5 + 15% of the player's current Strength level, rounded down.
Super strength along with super attacks are popular for player killing, bossing, Slayer, or melee training. The dragon battleaxe special may be preferable for melee training because it provides a similar boost while being much cheaper in the long run.
Crystal dust may be added to super strength, 1 dust per dose of potion, to make a divine super strength potion, requiring 70 Herblore.


### Superattack mix
Superattack mix is a barbarian potion that boosts a player's Attack level by 5-19 and heals 6 Hitpoints. It is made by adding caviar to a super attack(2), requiring level 47 Herblore and giving 33 experience. This mix can only be created after completing the Herblore part of Barbarian training with Otto Godblessed.
Drinking a sip of the potion gives the message "You drink the lumpy potion". If the player drinks all doses or empties the potion, it will become a regular empty vial.
Attack boost by level
Creation
Item sources
Superattack mix(1)
Superattack mix(2)


### Teak tree (Farming)
Teak trees can be grown by members with level 35 Farming. Players may plant a teak seed into a plant pot with a gardening trowel to get a teak seedling. After using a watering can to water the seedling, players will have to wait until it grows into an teak sapling (seedlings can still grow if banked).
Teak saplings can then be planted in a hardwood tree patch, granting 35 experience, a further 7,290 experience upon reaching full growth. When planted, the nearby farmer will watch over a growing teak tree in exchange for 15 limpwurt roots, which may be noted. If buying the teak seed and limpwurt roots on the Grand Exchange, it will cost around 4,373 per tree, assuming one pays a gardener.
Unlike trees found naturally, grown teak trees have a 1/8 chance to be temporarily depleted per log cut.


### Thieving
Thieving is a members-only skill which allows players to obtain coins and items by stealing from market stalls, chests, or by pickpocketing non-player characters. This skill also allows players to unlock doors and disarm traps.
Pickpocketing
Pickpocketing is the act of walking up to an NPC and right-clicking them, then selecting Pickpocket. A successful pickpocket grants Thieving experience and loot. Failing a pickpocket will make the NPC damage the player and stun them for several seconds. Because of the possibility for damage, bring food to heal the damage taken.
Coins obtained via pickpocketing are obtained via coin pouches. Players can have a stack of up to 28 coin pouches in their inventory, after which they must open them before they can pickpocket more.


### Thieving/Experience table
This table shows all possible experience sources for Thieving in the game, as well as all interactions that require a Thieving level. It also lists the items involved in the interactions, as well as other skills involved in processing the item.
While some of these entries may be listed as Free-to-play, the only thieving-related action that may be done on Free-to-play worlds is unlocking the Port Sarim jail door, which grants no Thieving experience on those worlds. NPCs cannot be pickpocketed when not on a Members server.


### Tree (Construction)
A dead tree can be built in the big tree space and tree space of the garden in a player-owned house. It requires 5 Construction to build and when built, it gives 31 Construction and Farming experience.
The tree cannot be cut down by normal means with an axe to obtain logs.
Creation


### Tree (Prifddinas Agility Course)
A crystal infused tree is a variant of regular crystal trees found in Prifddinas. The variant is located near the Prifddinas Agility Course, and unlike the regular crystal trees has no option to chop down the tree.
The tree is located next to the dark hole obstacle midway through the agility course. This was initially the choppable tree upon the release of the course, but was changed due to causing accidental misclicks when trying to enter the dark hole. The tree is otherwise identical.


### User:ChappellRune/Farming
I am a bot's Book of Farming
Allotment/Flower/Herb patches
Herb runs are broken up into two phases based on teleport methods. Each herb patch takes 80 minutes to mature leaving a hypothetical maximum of 18 runs per day (until more patches are unlocked). Ultracompost should always be used to maximize yield.
When you're ready to begin, withdraw up to 6 herb seeds along with 6 buckets of compost. Equip an Ardy cape, a ring of dueling, and a dramen staff.


### Willow tree (Construction)
A willow tree can be built in the big tree space and tree space of the garden in a player-owned house. It requires 30 Construction to build and when built, it gives 100 Construction and Farming experience.
The tree cannot be cut down by normal means with an axe to obtain logs.
Creation


### Willow tree (Farming)
Willow trees can be grown by members with level 30 Farming. Players may plant a willow seed into a plant pot with a gardening trowel to get a willow seedling, after using a watering can to water the seedling, players will have to wait until it grows into an willow sapling (seedlings can still grow if banked).
Willow saplings can then be planted in a tree patch, granting 25 experience, a further 1456.3 experience upon reaching full growth. A payment of a full basket of apples can be paid to a nearby Gardener to watch over willow trees. If buying the willow seed and apples on the Grand Exchange, it will cost around 603 per tree, assuming one pays a gardener.
Unlike trees found naturally, grown Willow trees have a 1/8 chance to be depleted per log cut.
Farming info
Growth Stages


### Woodcutting
Woodcutting is a gathering skill that primarily involves chopping trees to obtain logs used in the Fletching, Firemaking, and Construction skills. Players with a higher Woodcutting level can chop down new types of trees and cut down trees quicker, especially as higher levels of axes become available.
Woodcutting is a useful skill for a low-levelled player to make money early in the game. On the map, locations of rare trees can be located with a tree  icon.
Players looking for a more social Woodcutting experience can partake in Forestry. To begin, grab a Forestry kit from the  Forestry Shop in Draynor, Seers' Village, Prifddinas, or Auburnvale.
Players chopping the same tree will be given an invisible Woodcutting bonus.


### Woodcutting/Experience table
This table shows all possible experience sources for Woodcutting in the game, as well as all interactions that require a Woodcutting level. It also lists the items involved in the interactions, as well as other skills involved in processing the item.


### Yew tree (Construction)
A yew tree can be built in the big tree space and tree space of the garden in a player-owned house. It requires 60 Construction to build and when built, it gives 141 Construction and Farming experience.
The tree cannot be cut down by normal means with an axe to obtain logs.
Creation


### Yew tree (Farming)
Yew trees are Farming plants grown at level 60 Farming. A yew tree is grown by planting a yew seed in a filled plant pot. A gardening trowel is needed to plant the seed, then it must be watered.
After 5 minutes or less, the planted seed will become a yew sapling and can then be transferred to a tree patch. The tree patch must be raked clean of weeds. Compost or supercompost may be added prior to planting, and once planted (using a spade), the nearby farmer may be paid to watch over your tree. Payment is 10 cactus spines and optionally may be noted to save you space.
Planting the yew tree sapling gives 81 farming experience. When checked, a healthy yew tree provides 7,069.9 farming experience. If the farmer does not watch the tree, then disease on the tree may be removed using secateurs.


## Ores & Bars (104 articles)
----------------------------------------

### Adamant ore vein
Adamant ore veins are a variant of adamantite rocks that are found exclusively within the Abandoned Mine. When mined, they give players adamantite ore.
Mining info
Locations


### Adamantite bar
Adamantite bars can be smelted with 6 coal and 1 adamantite ore at level 70 Smithing. Smelting the bar grants 37.5 Smithing experience, and any item that is smithed from adamantite bars grants 62.5 Smithing experience per bar, yielding a net of 100 experience.
Creation
Money making
The following money making guides are available for Adamantite bar:
Smithing table
Products
Item sources


### Adamantite ore
Adamantite ore can be mined at level 70 Mining providing 95 Mining experience. After adamantite rocks are mined, it will take four minutes until it reappears. Adamantite ore is used with six coal to smelt adamantite bars. Smelting an adamantite bar gives 37.5 Smithing experience.
Wearing either superior mining gloves or expert mining gloves while mining an adamantite rock makes the rock not deplete upon mining adamantite, allowing you to mine one or two additional ore, respectively, before depleting.
Mining info
Money making
The following money making guide is available for Adamantite ore:
Products
Item sources


### Adamantite ore (Blast Furnace)
Adamantite ore is an entity seen at the Blast Furnace. It appears on the conveyor belt when a player deposits some Adamantite ore, before being dropped into the furnace.


### Al Kharid General Store
The Al Kharid General Store is a general store located in the desert town of Al Kharid.
It mainly stocks the normal general store items. However, many players train their Crafting nearby, because of the crafting store and Tanner that are also in Al Kharid, which often leads to great amounts of leather items, most often hardleather bodies, in the player stock of the store. Silk cannot be sold to this general store.
Adjacent to this store is Louie's Armoured Legs Bazaar.
Stock


### Aldarin General Store
Aldarin General Store is a general store run by a shopkeeper in north-eastern Aldarin.
A jug of water spawns on the table upstairs.
Stock


### Ali the Barman
Ali the Barman owns The Asp & Snake Bar in Pollnivneach. Other than serving alcoholic beverages to his thirsty customers, he also assists players with The Feud quest.
After completion of The Feud quest, most citizens of Pollnivneach will have their name changed to their true name; in his case, he becomes known as Faisal the Barman.
If the player tells Ali that someone has poisoned Traitorous Ali's drink, he will offer the player a beer as thanks. This can only be done once.
Stock


### Altar (Varlamore)
An altar dedicated to Ralos can be found in the settlement of Tal Teklan in Varlamore. This altar can be used to recharge Prayer points.
Locations
Shrine of Ralos


### Ana in a barrel
Ana in a barrel is the result of using a Barrel on Ana, which is used to smuggle her out of the mining camp she has been imprisoned in, and is a quest item used by the player during The Tourist Trap quest. If a player drops the barrel, Ana will climb out of it, and she will appear in the mines again. Players who attempt to teleport out while carrying her will drop the barrel first.


### Angry barbarian spirit
An Angry barbarian spirit is found in the Ancient Cavern, along with many other high-levelled monsters, including Mithril dragons. They are quite high hitting (with a maximum hit of 18) but have low accuracy.
These monsters are not considered to be undead (as indicated when trying to cast Crumble Undead on them), so a salve amulet or salve amulet (e) will not help.
One can be safespotted by going down the stairs and walking over the L-shaped stalagmites, then going back up the stairs to wait out the aggression timer. After 10 minutes, then go back down attack over the L-shaped stalagmites.
Locations
Prayer info
Drops
The following drop rates are provided by Jagex, unless otherwise specified.
The average  Angry barbarian spirit kill is worth 606.58.


### Arboretum (location)
The Arboretum is the "vault" for the infamous Blisterwood Tree, found in the upper tier of Darkmeyer. Lord Drakan had spent centuries attempting to destroy the tree, but failed. He simply locked it up in the building, forbidding anyone to enter it. It is meant to keep the Blisterwood Tree, an extremely dangerous wood to vampyres, out of accessible hands.
During Sins of the Father, the Arboretum is guarded by Desmodus Lasiurus, who only lets the player in after helping him retrieve his slaves back from Lord Alexei Jovkai. During the quest, searching the shelves on the floor yields the old note.


### Armour store.
Armour store is a shop found in the Keldagrim Blast Furnace factory and run by Jorzik. Here players can sell smithed armour to the store. The armour can be re-purchased for the market value, as the shop has no stock. Iron men cannot buy items from the shop as the items will show as overstocked in the shop.
Stock


### Auburnvale General Store
Auburnvale General Store is a general store run by a shopkeeper in Auburnvale.
The store has an oven, and a ladder leads to a room with a knife spawn.
Stock


### Bandit (Varlamore)
Bandits can be found north-west of Sunset Coast and north-east of Ralos' Rise.
Locations
Drops
The average  bandit kill is worth 238.7.
100%
Weapons and armour
Runes and ammunition
Herbs
There is a 15/128 chance of rolling the herb drop table.
Coins
Other
Gem drop table
There is a 3/128 chance of rolling the gem drop table.
Tertiary


### Bandit Bargains
Bandit Bargains is a general store in the Bandit Camp, owned by the Bandit shopkeeper. Like most general stores in the Kharidian Desert, it sells desert survival equipment. However, unlike usual general stores, you may not sell any tradeable item to this store. The owner will not attack if a player is wearing a god item, unlike other bandits in the area.
Although water filled containers are sold here, the filled container is still subject to evaporation while travelling through the desert.
Stock


### Bedabin Village Bartering
Bedabin Village Bartering is a shop in the Bedabin Camp, run by the Bedabin Nomads. The Bartering store sells some basic items like a general store, but will not buy any non-stocked items from players. Although there are several nomads in the camp that offers to trade, the stock is shared among them.
Stock


### Beer barrel
The beer barrel can be built in the barrel space in the kitchen in a player-owned house. It requires 7 Construction and 5 Cooking to build and gives 87 experience when built. The player must have a hammer and a saw in their inventory to build it.
The barrel, used with an empty beer glass, supplies the player with an unlimited amount of beer. The beer cannot be taken outside of a player-owned house.
Creation


### Beer barrel (flatpack)
A beer barrel flatpack can be made at a workbench in the Workshop of a player-owned house with level 7 Construction, yielding 87 experience. The flatpack can be used on the Barrel space in the Kitchen. The player must have a hammer and a saw in their inventory to build it.
Creation


### Berserk barbarian spirit
A berserk barbarian spirit is a monster found in the Ancient Cavern, where one spawns in the south-east corner of the main floor. According to Otto Godblessed, these are the spirits of barbarians that were killed while voyaging down into the Ancient Cavern.
Location
Prayer info
Drops
The following drop rates are provided by Jagex, unless otherwise specified.
The average  Berserk barbarian spirit kill is worth 606.58.
Weapons and armour
Runes and ammunition
Herbs
There is a 5/128 chance of rolling the herb drop table.
Materials
Coins
Other
Gem drop table
There is a 2/128 chance of rolling the gem drop table.
Tertiary


### Blasted ore
Blasted ore is obtained after detonating a hard rock face in the blast mine. Players must first excavate the hard rock using a chisel, then using a pot of dynamite on the resulting cavity. Then, players must light the dynamite and run away from it, or large amounts of damage will be taken.
Once the dynamite explodes, blasted ore will appear where the dynamite exploded. It should then be deposited in an ore sack near a blonde-haired operator. Players have three minutes before the blasted ore disintegrates, so it is encouraged to deposit the ore frequently.
Should the player pick up but not deposit the blasted ore in the Ore sack in time, the blasted ore will disappear from the inventory and a message will appear in the chat interface "Your blasted ore has disintegrated.


### Blighted super restore
Blighted super restore potions are a variant of super restore potion that can only be drunk while inside the Wilderness, Ferox Enclave, Mage Arena bank, PvP worlds, Castle Wars, and Clan Wars. If a Prayer cape or ring of the gods (i) is equipped, or if a Prayer cape or holy wrench is in the player's inventory, the Prayer restore increases to 8 + 27% of the player's current Prayer level, rounded down. This does not affect the rate of restoration of stats other than Prayer.
4 can be purchased at Justine's stuff for the Last Shopper Standing for 1 Last Man Standing point or at the Soul Wars Reward Shop for 10 Zeal Tokens. Unlike other potions, only the 4-dose variant is purchasable on the Grand Exchange.


### Blurberry Bar
Blurberry Bar is located inside the Grand Tree in the Gnome Stronghold. To get there, the player must climb to the 1st floor and turn east. Players may talk to Blurberry to learn the art of gnome cuisine, which will then allow players to begin playing the minigame Gnome Restaurant. The bar sells premade drinks such as fruit blasts, wizzard blizzards, and its specialty, blurberry specials. These premade drinks cannot be used for the Gnome Restaurant minigame or for the quest Recipe for Disaster. This bar is featured in the Alfred Grimhand's Barcrawl.
There is a second Blurberry's bar upstairs, east of the Gnome Ball field with identical stock and prices.
Stock


### Blurite bar
A blurite bar is a bar of refined blurite. It can be created through the Smithing skill at level 13 by using blurite ore on a furnace or level 10 by using Superheat Item on the ore, granting 8 Smithing experience. A blurite bar can be smithed on an anvil, through the Smithing skill to create blurite bolts (unf) for use in the creation of blurite bolts, or blurite limbs for use in the creation of a blurite crossbow and also to complete a task in the Falador Easy Diary when smithed on Doric's anvil.
Creation
Products


### Blurite ore
Blurite ore is a quest item used in The Knight's Sword. It can be mined at level 10 Mining, and grants 17.5 Mining experience when mined. After being mined, a blurite ore rock takes approximately 25 seconds to respawn.
Rocks containing blurite are found only in the mine in the Asgarnian Ice Dungeon, located south of Port Sarim on the tip of the Asgarnian Peninsula and north of Mudskipper Point (Fairy ring AIQ). The Ice Caves are guarded by Ice warriors and Ice giants, both of which can hit up to 7. Although blurite ore is mineable by non-members, only members can smith it. Thus, it is worthless to non-members except for doing The Knight's Sword.


### Bottle of barracuda brew
A bottle of barracuda brew is an alcoholic drink acquired by prying open a sealed crate just south of the bank boat in the Barracuda Belt. Doing so requires a crowbar in the inventory, which in turn requires completion of Prying Times to obtain.
Drinking the bottle grants 75 Sailing experience, and will knock the player character backwards and stun them for a short period of time.
Warning: When drank on a raft, it is supposedly possible for the knock back to push the player off their boat, killing them.
Location


### Broken bark snelm
The broken bark snelm is a type of helmet that reduces the damage taken from snails by 8. Its stats are similar to those of a steel med helm, but it has no requirements to equip.
Creation


### Bronze bar
A bronze bar is a bar of refined bronze. It can be created through the Smithing skill at level 1 by using a copper ore and a tin ore on a furnace, granting 6.2 Smithing experience. A bronze bar can be smithed on an anvil through the Smithing skill to create bronze weapons and armour. A list of bronze items that can be smithed from bronze bars and the Smithing levels required can be found here. When smithed, each bar gives 12.5 experience, with a maximum of 62.5 experience given for the bronze platebody.
Members can purchase bronze bars from the Shantay Pass Shop in the Shantay Pass south of Al Kharid for 8gp each, or from Jiminua's Jungle Store north of Tai Bwo Wannai village for 12gp each.
4-6 bronze bars are required for quests.


### Bunbridge General Store
The Bunbridge General Store is the general store located north of the Bunbridge Castle in Bunbridge. When new bunnies arrive in BunScape, they arrive in Bunbridge and tend to have a look around, and thus the store is a popular place for new bunnies.
Stock


### Cam Torum General Store
Cam Torum General Store is a shop located in the south-west corner of the Cam Torum market.
A tinderbox spawns on the 1st floor.
Stock


### Canal barge
The canal barge is a small ship built by the Varrockian Museum just north of the Digsite, east of Varrock.
After the completion of the Bone Voyage quest, the barge can be used to travel to Fossil Island by using the Quick-Travel option on the barge guard, or by using a digsite pendant.
According to Curator Haig Halen, the idea for the canal and barge's construction surfaced shortly after the discovery of a previously uncharted island north of the swampy region of Morytania. When finished, a small canal was dug to the River Salve, the border between Misthalin and Morytania. From there the water-filled canal will allow the barge to travel north up the Salve, where it will eventually arrive on the island.


### Celastrus bark
Celastrus bark is a type of wood harvested from a celastrus tree. The bark can be fletched into a battlestaff using a knife with level 40 Fletching, granting 80 Fletching experience.
One Celastrus tree produces a minimum of 3 bark, where each harvest has a chance of using up one of the "lives" of the celastrus patch, much like harvesting herb patches. Similar to other variable-yield patches, the yield of Celastrus bark can be increased by using magic secateurs, supercompost, ultracompost, attas seed, and having higher Farming levels.
Celastrus bark can also be used for tick manipulation training on a 4-tick cycle to receive greatly improved experience rates. An expanded explanation on tick manipulation and Celastrus bark's use case can be found on that page.


### Chocolate bar
A chocolate bar is a food item that heals 3 Hitpoints when eaten. It is used as an ingredient in Cooking but can also be ground to chocolate dust using a pestle and mortar or a knife, which is required for the Plague City quest.
When eaten, the message You eat the chocolate bar. is displayed.
The chocolate bar can be added to a cake with 50 Cooking to create a chocolate cake.
Chocolate bars spawn in the Cooks' Guild, Zanaris, or in The Culinaromancer's Chest during and after the Recipe for Disaster quest. After full completion of Recipe for Disaster the Culinaromancer's Chest stocks 50 chocolate bars which can easily be bought and banked before hopping worlds. Chocolate bars can also be bought from each of the bakers' stalls in Ardougne market place for 10 coins; their stocks are 7 and 9.


### Clay ore vein
Clay ore veins are a variant of clay rocks that are found exclusively within the Abandoned Mine. When mined, they give players clay.
Mining Info
Locations


### Coal ore vein
Coal ore veins are a variant of coal rocks that are found exclusively within the Abandoned Mine. When mined, they give players coal.
Mining info
Locations


### Cooked barb-tailed kebbit
Cooked barb-tailed kebbit is a type of hunter meat that restores a total of 12 Hitpoints when eaten, 7 are restored immediately, 5 are restored after a delay of 7 ticks (4.2s). Eating another hunter meat too quickly will waste any pending healing, as the most recent delayed heal will replace older effects that have not completed yet. Standard foods and potions do not interrupt this pending heal.
It can be obtained by cooking raw barb-tailed kebbit on a fire or cooking range, requiring level 32 Cooking and granting 106 experience when successful. When cooking there is a chance to fail, resulting in burnt kebbit. The burn rate decreases as the player's Cooking level increases, and it will stop burning entirely at Cooking level 63 on both ranges and fires.


### Copper ore
Copper ore can be mined at level 1 Mining providing 17.5 Mining experience. After mining copper rocks, it will take 2.4 seconds until it reappears. Copper ore is used with tin ore to smelt bronze bars, or used with nickel ore to smelt Cupronickel bars. Smelting a bronze bar gives 6.2 Smithing experience.
Mining info
Uses
Quests
Doric's Quest: 4 × copper ore
Products
Item sources


### Copper ore vein
Copper ore veins are a variant of copper rocks that are found exclusively within the Abandoned Mine. When mined, they give players copper ore.
Mining info
Locations


### Corporeal Beast's Lair
The Corporeal Beast's Lair is the lair of the Corporeal Beast. It is a multi-combat area, accessed via a cave entrance just north-east of Ferox Enclave.
As the entrance to the lair is in the Wilderness, players cannot enter the cave whilst in combat; however, players can safely reach the lair by teleporting using the games necklace, as the lair itself is not in the Wilderness.


### Corrupted ore
Corrupted ore is mined from crystal outcrops within the Corrupted Gauntlet. It is used alongside phren bark and linum tirinum to create and upgrade corrupted helms, bodies, and legs.
Mining info
Obtained from
Products


### Crystal ore
Crystal ore is mined from crystal outcrops within the Gauntlet. It is used alongside phren bark and linum tirinum to create and upgrade crystal helms, bodies, and legs.
Mining info
Obtained from
Products


### Cupronickel bar
A cupronickel bar is a metal bar used in shipbuilding, as well as certain island amenities. It can be smelted using the Smithing skill at level 74 Smithing by using 2 copper ore and 1 nickel ore on a furnace or by using the Superheat Item spell from the standard spell book.
When attempting to make cupronickel bars at the Blast Furnace, up to 14 nickel ore can be deposited at a time. As a result, players should deposit 18 copper ore and 9 nickel ore each run, withdrawing the bars once every three runs for a total of 27 bars per withdraw.
Creation
Products


### Daeyalt ore
Daeyalt ore is a rare ore that can only be mined from daeyalt rocks by players with 20 Mining during and after the Darkness of Hallowvale quest. It cannot be smelted into a bar using the Smithing skill.
Daeyalt ore is found in the Meiyerditch mine in north-western Meiyerditch in the Sanguinesti region and in the Daeyalt essence mine in Darkmeyer. A player gets 3 ores from each rock wall.
If players are sent to the Meiyerditch mine by the Vyrewatch in Meiyerditch, they must mine 15 ores and place them in the mine cart, then ask to be released from the mine. This can be skipped by wearing a vyre noble outfit, requiring partial completion of Sins of the Father.
Mining Info
Item sources


### Darkmeyer General Store
Darkmeyer General Store is a store located in Darkmeyer, owned by Drasdan Ranor. Sins of the Father must be completed to access this store and you must be wearing the Vyrewatch noble outfit. It is one of four stores in Darkmeyer, and is located in the southern section.
Stock


### Davon's Amulet Store.
Davon's Amulet Store is a jewellery store in Brimhaven, owned by Davon. It stocks enchanted gem amulets, as well as holy symbols. It has a higher buying price and lower selling price to players wearing Karamja gloves 1 or higher.
The shop has no inventory of its own to sell, making it useful for getting rid of enchanted amulets as it will buy them for a higher price than other shops. Ironmen cannot buy from this shop because any amulets that he has available for purchase will always be overstocked.
Stock


### Deadman Reward Store
The Deadman Reward Store is a store run by Nigel in the Lumbridge graveyard. He sells and buys rewards from Deadman: Armageddon and Deadman: Annihilation in exchange for Deadman Points. The Deadman Points balance is separate for both main game and Deadman Mode, which means that they can be spent on both gamemodes without affecting the other.
Note: You need to log onto the permanent Deadman Mode world 345 after the event ends to have your Deadman Points be available in the main game.
Stock
Deadman: Armageddon
A total of 30,000 points is required for all Armageddon rewards. However, an Armageddon rug only fits one rug space, so multiple may be desired.
Deadman: Annihilation (Currently unavailable)
A total of 37,000 points is required for all Annihilation rewards.


### Diango's Toy Store
Diango's Toy Store is located in Draynor Village market, run by Diango next to his Toy Stall. Many holiday events are centred around Diango and his store. Players who have lost a non-tradeable holiday item can visit this store to have it replaced free of charge.
Stock


### Dwarven shopping store
The Dwarven shopping store is a general store run by a dwarf in the Dwarven Mine. It is almost never visited, mainly because of its location; there are many general stores nearby (such as the ones in Falador or Edgeville) which are much easier to reach.
Stock


### East Tlati Rainforest mine
The East Tlati Rainforest mine is a mine on the eastern coast of the Tlati Rainforest.
Along with its ores, it is home to one of the three spawns of the Gemstone Crab. If the crab is not here, players can speak to Ru Merald nearby for directions.
Transportation
Pendant of ates to north of Kastori, and run north.
Quetzal Transport System to Tal Teklan and run east.
Rocks


### Elemental ore
Elemental ore is an ore that may only be obtained by killing a level 35 earth elemental after trying to mine the elemental rock. This ore can only be obtained during and after the Elemental Workshop I quest, and turned into elemental metals. Elemental ore is only found in the Elemental Workshop dungeon beneath the Seers' Village, in the house with the anvil, next to the bank. Earth elementals are found in the western area on the first level of the workshop.
The second level is to make bars, and repairs are needed here too. One elemental ore and four coal may be smelted into a bar of elemental metal using the blast furnace in the southern area of the Elemental Workshop (level 20 Smithing is required). This bar is used to smith the elemental shield and helmet.


### Enchanted bar
The enchanted bar is a quest item used during the Monkey Madness I quest. It is obtained by taking some monkey dentures, a gold bar and the m'amulet mould to Zooknock, the Royal Guard mage, at the end of the Ape Atoll Dungeon. After Monkey Madness II, it is impossible to reobtain this item, as Zooknock will just provide players with a completed m'speak amulet.
Zooknock will then infuse the magical powers of the dentures into the gold bar and return an enchanted bar. The player should then use this bar with the m'amulet mould on the magical flame in the dungeon below the temple to create an m'speak amulet.


### Enraged barbarian spirit
The enraged barbarian spirit is a level 166 spirit that can be found in the Ancient Cavern alongside many other high-levelled monsters, including mithril dragons and waterfiends. They are capable of large amounts of damage, with 18 being their highest hit, but they have low accuracy. Protect from Melee can be used to completely avoid damage.
These are a common option for an ironman account to get a mith grapple or yew shortbow.
These monsters are not considered to be undead (as indicated when trying to cast Crumble Undead on them), so a salve amulet or salve amulet (e) will not help at all.
Locations
Prayer info
Drops
The following drop rates are provided by Jagex, unless otherwise specified.
The average  Enraged barbarian spirit kill is worth 606.58.


### Falador General Store
The Falador General Store mainly consists of useful low level items. It is the first building on the west side when entering through the north gate. The ground floor of the general store contains the shop keeper and the shop assistant.
There is a ladder in the store that players can climb up to find Perdu. There are two more floors above him that can be reached by ladders, both of which contain nothing.
Stock


### Fancy Clothes Store
The Fancy Clothes Store is a shop in south-eastern Varrock. It is owned and run by Asyff. The shop sells needles and thread and different kinds of clothes such as gloves, boots, capes and hats. The store is also one of the places where players can obtain hunter clothing, through the Custom Fur Clothing panel, some of which increases one's Thieving abilities or provides weight reduction.
Stock
Custom Fur Clothing


### Ferocious barbarian spirit
A ferocious barbarian spirit appears as a result of using mangled bones at the pyre site around Otto's whirlpool, south of Barbarian Outpost.
Making the pyre requires a tinderbox or any suitable bow in your inventory, as well as mangled bones and any type of log and axe. After obtaining all required items, head to the edge of the lake in front of Otto the barbarian's hut and click on the "build pyre" spot.
Protection prayers are recommended; this monster can hit fairly hard for its level. Though it appears ghostly and comes from the afterlife, this monster is not undead and cannot be affected by Crumble Undead or the Salve Amulet.


### Fight Arena Bar
The Fight Arena Bar is a single-floored pub located in the south-western corner of the Fight Arena. The pub heavily relies on the Arena for its business, as it draws many customers ranging from spectators to guards.
The bar is the only place in RuneScape where players can purchase the Khali brew, which sells for 5 coins each. However, it has no drink option so players cannot consume it, and it is also untradeable. Regular beer is also available for 2 coins each.
The bar is involved in the Fight Arena quest where players must purchase a pint of Khali brew to get a guard drunk.
Stock


### Food Store
The Food Store, operated by Wydin, sells a variety of fresh food, and is located in Port Sarim. It plays a notable role in the Pirate's Treasure quest - it is the drop off point between Karamja and Asgarnia to find the otherwise illegal beverage Karamjan rum, after smuggling it from Karamja.
Starting the quest is not required to access the store. However, to access the back room of the store, the player must have progressed far enough into the quest and be wearing a white apron (which can be taken from the Fishing shop to the north). The back room contains various crates: a crate of cabbages, crate of potatoes, crates of raw chicken, and a crate of bananas.


### Forester's Arms
Forester's Arms is the tavern in Seers' Village. The place is featured in the Bar Crawl, selling a Liverbane Ale for 18 coins; the ale temporarily lowers Attack, Defence, Fletching, Firemaking and Woodcutting by 6 levels, so don't plan to pursue those skills after running the Bar Crawl here. In addition to beer, the bartender sells meat pie for 16 coins and bowls of stew for 20 coins. These are good prices but there's a bit of dialogue to go through for each one bought, so it's rather slow if large quantities are wanted. Buying a bowl of stew is also an easy task for the Kandarin Diary.
The Poison salesman works his trade here; he features in the Murder Mystery and Fremennik trials quests. There are a number of NPCs (men and women) to train on.


### Forester's ration
Forester's rations are a stackable item used in Woodcutting. When in the inventory or stored in a Forestry kit, a player wielding or having a felling axe in their inventory (as the highest or equal-highest-tier axe, if multiple axes are carried) will receive 10% more Woodcutting experience each time they successfully chop a tree and gain a 20% chance not to receive a log. One ration is consumed each time a tree is successfully chopped with a felling axe (meaning Woodcutting experience is received), whether or not logs are gathered. When this happens, a game message in the chatbox will state You consume a Forester's ration to fuel a mighty chop. You strike a clean cut without gathering any material.


### Forestry Shop
The Forestry Shop is the shop for Forestry rewards, run by the Friendly Forester in Draynor Village, Seers' Village, Prifddinas, and Nemus Retreat, where players can purchase several unique rewards with their anima-infused bark and logs. Players (excluding Ultimate Ironmen) can sell the cape pouch, funky-shaped log, and log basket back to the shop for 80% of their cost; this includes a refund of both anima bark and logs. Players may also sell duplicate pheasant tail feathers and sturdy beehive parts.
Ultimate ironmen can make use of a log storage option at the Friendly Forester that will permanently store logs exclusively for use in the Forestry Shop, i.e., they may not be withdrawn once deposited. Logs deposited in this manner can be used to substitute noted logs in the Forestry Shop.


### Forestry outfit
The Forestry outfit is a cosmetic override for the Lumberjack outfit. Like the Lumberjack outfit, it is an experience-boosting clothing set that grants additional experience when worn while Woodcutting, but will not provide any additional experience bonus above the Lumberjack outfit. Equipping any piece of the outfit requires 44[not boostable] Woodcutting.
Each piece equipped increases Woodcutting experience by 0.2-0.8% (depends on piece); wearing the complete set grants an additional set bonus of 0.5%, resulting in a total of 2.5% for the entire set. This does stack with the bonus 10% experience when cutting maples from the Kandarin Diary medium reward, as well as the bonus 10% experience when using a felling axe with Forester's rations in the player's Forestry kit.


### Fortis General Store
The Fortis General Store is a general store in Civitas illa Fortis. It is run by the shopkeeper, and stocks a variety of common goods.
Stock


### Fossil Island General Store
Fossil Island General Store is located in the Museum Camp on Fossil Island. It is run by a Shop keeper.
Stock


### Friendly Ent (Forestry event)
Friendly ent is a group Forestry event with entlings requesting players to prune their leaves in a stylish fashion to become pruned entlings before the timer runs out.
Overview
Five entlings appear, with each one asking for a random prune style. Eligible players have the option to prune the top, back, or sides, depending on the overhead request of the entling. If the player chooses the correct option based on their request, the player will receive Woodcutting and Fletching experience as well as anima-infused bark. If the player chooses the wrong option, the entling will first stun the player and then exclaim that the chosen prune action is incorrect.


### Frincos' Fabulous Herb Store.
Frincos' Fabulous Herb Store is a Herblore shop on Entrana. Frincos sells eyes of newt and vials both individually and in packs. He also sells pestle and mortars. His shop contains a sink and two vial respawns. The shop is also next to a hops patch.
Stock


### Gabooty's Tai Bwo Wannai Drinky Store.
Gabooty's Tai Bwo Wannai Drinky Store is a store located in Tai Bwo Wannai, owned by Gabooty. It purchases gnome cocktails, apparently due to the gnome pilot who crashed nearby the village. Gabooty also runs Gabooty's Tai Bwo Wannai Cooperative.
Stock


### General store
The general store is a type of shop placed in many locations in Gielinor. Unlike specialty shops, general stores usually accept all tradeable items, making them a useful place to sell miscellaneous goods that do not have a dedicated store. General stores are identified on the map by a pot  icon. Many general stores have both a shop keeper and a shop assistant, both of which can be used to access the shop stock.
Staples
Each general store carries a few commonly used, inexpensive items. It rarely runs out of these items for long, as they tend to restock quickly.


### Gold bar
A gold bar is a bar of refined gold created through the Smithing skill at level 40 by using a gold ore with a furnace, or by casting Superheat Item on it. By default, this gives 22.5 Smithing experience per bar, but if the goldsmith gauntlets from the Family Crest quest are worn, the experience given is boosted to 56.2.
The primary use of gold bars is to create jewellery through the Crafting skill. To craft gold bars into jewellery, players must use a gold bar on a furnace with the proper mould in their inventory. If players wish to craft jewellery with gems inset, they must also have the respective cut gems.
Apart from jewellery, gold bars can be used to create gold helmets, used in the Between a Rock... quest, and gold bowls which are used in the Legends' Quest.


### Gold ore
Gold ore can be mined from gold rocks at level 40 Mining, providing 65 Mining experience. After it is mined, it takes 60 seconds to regenerate. Gold ore is used to smelt gold bars at a furnace. Smelting a gold bar gives 22.5 Smithing experience, or 56.2 with goldsmith gauntlets equipped. The bar can then be used again on a furnace to craft various types of jewellery, with sufficient Crafting skill, and an appropriate mould. An anvil is only used to make a gold helmet, and golden bowl for the quests Between a Rock... and Legends' Quest respectively.
A frequently occurring item, gold ore can be acquired through various means, beyond mining.


### Goreu
Goreu is one of the many citizens of Lletya.
The player can only access Goreu to pickpocket after starting Mourning's End Part I and require level 85 Thieving. A successful pickpocket yields coins or other items and 353.3 Thieving experience.
Treasure Trails
Goreu is the solution to the master anagram clue: RUE GO. He will then give the player either a light box or a puzzle box.
Pickpocketing
Pickpocket chance
Pickpocketing info
Loot
A successful pickpocket attempt will gain one the following items:


### Guard (H.A.M. Storerooms)
Several H.A.M. guards are found in the lower level storeroom of the H.A.M. Hideout after completing Death to the Dorgeshuun. The guards can be pickpocketed at level 20 Thieving to obtain various rewards, including metallic keys that open chests in the storeroom.
Players intending to gather easy clue scrolls should prefer to pickpocket H.A.M. Members in the main floor of the hideout, which have a higher rate of giving clues.
Locations
Pickpocketing
Pickpocketing info
Keys
Drop rates are estimated based on 670,470 samples from the Drop Rate Project, unless otherwise cited.
Armour and weaponry
Other


### Guard (Tlati Rainforest)
Guards are found in Tal Teklan and Kastori.
Locations
Drops
The following drop rates are provided by Jagex, unless otherwise specified.
The average  Guard (Tlati Rainforest) kill is worth 149.97.
100%
Runes and ammunition
Seeds
There is a 18/128 chance of rolling the general seed drop table.
Coins
Other
Tertiary
Pickpocketing
Pickpocketing info
Pickpocket chance
Loot
A successful pickpocket attempt will gain the following loot:


### Guard (Varlamore)
Guards of Varlamore can be seen in Civitas illa Fortis and at The Teomat. They have unique appearances, but are otherwise identical to standard guards found elsewhere in Gielinor.
Locations
Drops
The following drop rates are provided by Jagex, unless otherwise specified.
The average  Varlamore guard kill is worth 110.41.
100%
Runes and ammunition
Seeds
There is a 18/128 chance of rolling the general seed drop table.
Coins
Other
Tertiary
Pickpocketing
Pickpocketing info
Pickpocket chance
Loot
A successful pickpocket attempt will gain the following loot:


### Holy barrier (Hallowed Sepulchre)
A holy barrier is a magical force-field that can be found deep within the Hallowed Sepulchre. The holy barriers were conjured by Saradominist mages during the Third Age in order to protect the coffins of the fallen justiciar from the vampyres that hunted them. In order to activate the barrier and be permitted to pass through, one must sacrifice two piles of vampyre dust at a Saradomin brazier (or just one pile if wearing a hallowed symbol).
Agility info
Agility experience is only awarded on the first crossing and return.
Locations


### Iron bar
An iron bar is a bar of refined iron. It can be created through the Smithing skill at level 15 by using iron ore on a furnace, granting 12.5 Smithing experience. When smelting iron ore, there is a 50% chance that it will be too impure; it disappears, yielding no Smithing experience nor an iron bar. However, wearing a ring of forging, casting Superheat Item, or using the Blast Furnace would give a 100% success rate.
An iron bar can be smithed on an anvil through the Smithing skill to create iron weapons and armour. When smithed, each bar grants 25 experience, with a maximum of 125 being given for the iron platebody.


### Iron ore
Iron ore can be mined from iron rocks at level 15 Mining, providing 35 Mining experience. It can be smelted at a furnace into an iron bar at level 15 Smithing, or along with two coal into a steel bar at level 30 Smithing. Smelting iron bars has a 50% success rate, unless the player is wearing a ring of forging, using the Superheat Item spell, or using the Blast Furnace. Smelting iron ore into a bar gives 12.5 Smithing experience, and smelting a steel bar gives 17.5 Smithing experience.
Mining info
Money making
The following money making guides are available for Iron ore:
Uses
Quests
Doric's Quest: 2 × iron ore
Treasure Trails
Charlie the Tramp may ask to be given an iron ore as a requirement for his beginner clue scroll step.
Products
Item sources


### Iron ore vein
Iron ore veins are a variant of iron rocks that are found exclusively within the Abandoned Mine. When mined, they give players iron ore.
Mining info
Locations


### Knight of Varlamore
The Knights of Varlamore are found in Civitas illa Fortis, around the Kualti Headquarters. Two are also found in the Sunrise Palace.
Like the Knight of Ardougne, they can be pickpocketed at level 55 Thieving, giving the player a coin pouch worth 50 coins and 84.3 Thieving experience.
Locations
Drops
Drop rates are estimated based on 1,012 samples from the Drop Rate Project, unless otherwise cited.
100%
Coins
Seeds
This monster rolls the general seed drop table.
Tertiary
Pickpocketing


### Lead bar
A lead bar is a metal bar used in shipbuilding, as well as certain island amenities. It can be created through the Smithing skill at level 25 by using two lead ore on a furnace, granting 15.5 Smithing experience.
Creation
Products


### Lead ore
Lead ore is an ore mined from lead rocks at level 25 Mining, granting 40.5 experience. Two ore can be smelted into a lead bar at level 25 Smithing, granting 15.5 experience.
Mining enhancers will work on lead rocks; wearing Varrock armour 1 and better will give a 10% chance of mining an extra lead ore, and mining gloves will prevent lead rocks from depleting after mining a certain amount of ore, depending on the type of gloves worn.
Mining lead ore is intended to provide more experience per hour than mining iron rocks outside of the Mining Guild, but less experience per hour than mining iron rocks in the Mining Guild.
Mining info
Products
Item sources


### Log balance (Tlati Rainforest)
The log balance is an Agility shortcut found on the western tributary of River Varla. An Agility level of 40 is required to use the shortcut, and grants no experience on use.
Agility info


### Lovakite bar
A lovakite bar is a bar of refined lovakite ore made by smelting one lovakite ore and two pieces of coal at the Lovakite furnace in the centre of Lovakengj, granting 20 Smithing experience.
It can be smelted with a Smithing level of 45.
It cannot be smelted in a normal furnace. If players try, it'll say it's not the right temperature. Players must use the Lovakite furnace just south of the blast mine bank (accessible instantly by using Xeric's talisman to teleport to Xeric's Inferno). However, the Superheat Item spell will work as normal.
Creation
Products


### Lovakite ore
Lovakite ore is a type of ore that can be obtained through Mining, and is only found in the lovakite mine in Lovakengj. Mining this ore requires 65 Mining.
Lovakite ore can be mined with a Mining level of 65 or higher, granting 60 Mining experience. Lovakite ore has a respawn time of 30–45 seconds.
It can be smelted into a lovakite bar by combining one Lovakite ore with two coal, which requires level 45 Smithing and grants 20 experience. Lovakite can only be smelted at the lovakite furnace in central Lovankengj (south of the Blast Mine) or via Superheat Item. Attempting to do so at any other furnace will state that the furnace's temperature is wrong for this ore. Lovakite bars can then be smithed into Shayzien armour.


### Lunar bar
A lunar bar is a bar of refined lunar ore. It is created by smelting lunar ore, which can be mined from the stalagmites in the western part of the caves underneath Lunar Isle.
During Lunar Diplomacy, one bar is needed to make a lunar helm. During The Fremennik Exiles, three lunar bars are needed to make the V sigil.
During Fremennik Exiles, the fastest way to make lunar bars is to use the Superheat Item spell, then head over to Seers' Village and use the lunar bars on the anvil there.
Creation
Products


### Lunar ore
Lunar ore is an ore that can be mined at level 60 Mining from the stalagmites in the western part of the caves underneath Lunar Isle during and after the Lunar Diplomacy quest. It can be smelted at a furnace or via the Superheat Item spell into a lunar bar, one of which is needed to make a lunar helm, and another three to make the V sigil during The Fremennik Exiles.
Mining info
Products
Item sources


### Mithril bar
A Mithril bar is a bar of refined mithril ore. It can be created through the Smithing skill by using a mithril ore and 4 pieces of coal on a furnace, granting 30 experience. The Superheat Item spell can also be used to make mithril bars. Both ways of creating mithril bars require level 50 Smithing. It can also be created in the Blast Furnace, which can be considerably cheaper as it halves the amount of coal needed.
A mithril bar can be smithed on an anvil by using the Smithing skill to create mithril weapons and armour, granting 50 Smithing experience per bar used. A list of mithril items that can be smithed from mithril bars and the Smithing levels required can be found at Smithing tables.


### Mithril ore
Mithril ore can be mined at level 55 Mining providing 80 Mining experience. After mithril rocks are mined, it will take two minutes until it reappears. Mithril ore is used with four coal to smelt mithril bars. Smelting a mithril bar gives 30 Smithing experience.
Wearing either superior mining gloves or expert mining gloves while mining a mithril rock makes the rock not deplete upon mining mithril, allowing you to mine one or two additional ore, respectively, before depleting.
Mining info
Products
Item sources
Treasure Trails
Mining a mithril ore is required to complete a elite clue scroll skill challenge assigned by Sherlock.


### Mithril ore vein
Mithril ore veins are a variant of mithril rocks that are found exclusively within the Abandoned Mine. When mined, they give players mithril ore.
Mining info
Locations


### Nickel ore
Nickel ore is an ore mined from nickel rocks at level 74 Mining, granting 80.5 experience. Alongside two copper ore, it can be smelted into a cupronickel bar at level 74 Smithing, granting 42 experience.
With the exception of Varrock armour 4 (which gives a 10% chance of mining an extra nickel ore), other mining enhancers do not work for nickel rocks.
At higher Mining levels, experience rates are around 25k xp/hr. At 99 Mining and with the eastern Deepfin Mine bank chest built, experience rates can be up to 28k xp/hr.
Mining info
Products
Item sources


### Ore stall (Port Roberts)
Ore stall is a stall in Port Roberts which may be stolen from starting at level 82 Thieving, granting 191 Thieving experience. This stall does not deplete when stolen from unlike other stalls throughout Gielinor. Three market guards patrol the area in a set pattern, allowing the player to steal several times before they can be caught.
Locations
Shops
Port Roberts Ore Stall
Thieving info
Drop rates are estimated based on 20,673 samples from the Drop Rate Project, unless otherwise cited.


### Ore vein
Ore veins are found in the Motherlode Mine and are mined for pay-dirt, yielding 60 Mining experience each. On the lower level, veins disappear 23-27 seconds after they were first mined.
Ore veins on the upper level and lower level outer ring respawn after 100 ticks or 60 seconds. Veins on the lower level inner ring take 150 ticks or 90 seconds to respawn. Veins not being mined at the time they should deplete will still allow for one ore to be mined from them before becoming completely depleted. Veins on the lower level will keep that state, when they get mined their respawn time will be shorter the longer they stayed in that state. On the upper level, veins will fully reset after 60 seconds of being in that state.
The veins also have a chance to give uncut gems.


### Phren bark
Phren bark is chopped from Phren Roots within the Gauntlet. It is used alongside crystal ore and linum tirinum to create and upgrade crystal helms, bodies, and legs.
Woodcutting info
Obtained from
Products
The word "phren" means "tree" or "wood" in Welsh.


### Phren bark (corrupted)
Phren bark is chopped from Corrupt Phren Roots within the Corrupted Gauntlet. It is used alongside corrupted ore and linum tirinum to create and upgrade corrupted helms, bodies, and legs.
Woodcutting info
Obtained from
Products
The word "phren" means "tree" or "wood" in Welsh.


### Poachers (Forestry event)
Poachers is a group Forestry event where players attempt to disarm fox traps to prevent poachers from capturing a frightened fox.
Overview
The goal of this event is for players to disarm as many traps as possible to save the fox from being captured. Players earn both Woodcutting and Hunter experience as well as anima-infused bark whilst disarming these traps. However, not disarming the traps will damage the fox, and if more than two traps are left up, it will be captured and end the event. Players can prevent this by working together and disarming all of the traps to free the fox until the poachers give up and flee.


### Raw barb-tailed kebbit
Raw barb-tailed kebbit is a type of hunter meat obtained from barb-tailed kebbits, requiring level 33 Hunter to hunt.
Cooking barb-tailed kebbit requires level 32 in Cooking, resulting in a cooked barb-tailed kebbit and 106 Cooking experience. If unsuccessful, it will result in a burnt kebbit instead.
It can also be given to Soar Leader Pitri in exchange for one charge on a quetzal whistle.
Products
Item sources


### Restore mix
Restore mix is a barbarian potion that can be made by adding roe or caviar to a restore potion(2), requiring level 24 Herblore and giving 21 experience. This mix can only be created after completing the Herblore part of Barbarian training with Otto Godblessed. It is the highest level barbarian potion that can be made using roe.
Drinking a sip of the potion gives the message "You drink the lumpy potion". If the player drinks all doses or empties the potion, it will become a regular empty vial.
Uses
Restores Attack, Strength, Defence, Ranged and Magic when the level in one of these skills has been temporarily reduced.


### Restore potion
A restore potion is a potion made by using red spiders' eggs on a harralander potion (unf), requiring 22 Herblore, yielding a restore potion(3) and 62.5 Herblore experience. A dose of restore potion restores levels of temporarily reduced stats in Attack, Strength, Defence, Ranged, and Magic equal to 10 + 30% of the related maximum level, rounded down, for each skill. It does not restore Prayer points or any other skill that is not listed like a super restore. Restore potions will not boost any skill above its base level, even if the listed restore is greater than the current reduction.
After partial completion of the In Aid of the Myreque quest, garlic can be added to a restore potion(3), requiring 22 Herblore, yielding a Guthix balance (unf) and 25 Herblore experience.


### Runite ore
Runite ore can be mined at level 85 Mining providing 125 Mining experience. After runite rocks are mined, it will take twelve minutes until it reappears. Runite ore is used with eight coal to smelt runite bars. Smelting a runite bar gives 50 Smithing experience.
Wearing expert mining gloves while mining a runite rock grants a guaranteed extra gather before depleting.
Mining info
Ore chance
At 99 mining, runite ore has a 19/256 chance of depletion every 3 ticks (1.8 seconds), when using a rune pickaxe. In the case of a rune pickaxe, the expected amount of time for success is 256/19 * 3 ticks, roughly 24.25 seconds.
For the median time to success, consider that the chance of not getting the rock in x rolls is (237/256)^x. Solve for (237/256)^x = 0.5, you get x = 8.99 approximately.


### Silver ore
Silver ore can be mined at level 20 Mining, providing 40 Mining experience. After silver rocks are mined, it takes 60 seconds for them to respawn. Smelting silver ore will turn it into a silver bar, requiring 20 Smithing and giving 13.7 Smithing experience. The bar can then be crafted into various types of jewellery through the Crafting skill at a furnace, rather than at an anvil like other metallic bars. Doing so requires the usage of a mould, depending on the type of jewellery desired.
Wearing mining gloves, superior mining gloves, or expert mining gloves allows 1, 2, or 3 additional ores (respectively) to be mined before depletion.
Mining info
Products
Item sources


### Super restore
A super restore is a potion that restores all player stats that have been lowered, including Prayer, but not Hitpoints. Players with level 63 Herblore can make a super restore potion by using a red spiders' eggs on a snapdragon potion (unf), giving 142.5 experience. Super restores can further be made into Sanfew serums by adding (in order) unicorn horn dust, snake weed, and nail beast nails into a super restore potion.
The restore value obtained per dose is 8 + 25% of the player's base level (rounded down) in each of the affected skills. For example, a player with 84 Thieving and 63 Smithing would restore both 29 points of Thieving and 23 points of Smithing for each dose consumed. The maximum amount of points that can be restored with this potion is 32 at level 96.


### Super restore mix
Super restore mix is a barbarian potion that restores all lowered stats by 8-32 levels, including prayer, and heals 6 Hitpoints. It is made by adding caviar to a super restore(2), requiring level 67 Herblore and giving 48 experience. This mix can only be created after completing the Herblore part of Barbarian training with Otto Godblessed.
Drinking a sip of the potion gives the message "You drink the lumpy potion". If the player drinks all doses or empties the potion, it will become a regular empty vial.
Creation
Item sources
Super restore mix(2)


### The Asp & Snake Bar.
The Asp & Snake Bar is located on the south side of Pollnivneach. As a result of it being in the town square and right on the river, it is a popular hangout amongst the locals. Ali the Barman serves players drinks from their large selection.
On the outside of the south wall is Ali the Snake Charmer, from whom a player can obtain a snake charm.
Stock
An asp is a venomous snake found in Egypt.


### Tin ore
Tin ore can be mined at level 1 Mining providing 17.5 Mining experience. After mining tin rocks, it will take 2.4 seconds until it reappears. Tin ore is used with copper ore to smelt bronze bars. Smelting a bronze bar gives 6.2 Smithing experience.
Mining info
Products
Item sources


### Tin ore vein
Tin ore veins are a variant of tin rocks that are found exclusively within the Abandoned Mine. When mined, they give players tin ore.
Mining info
Locations


### Tree (Varlamore)
Trees are a smaller variant of common trees found in very large quantities in Varlamore and sparingly on several Sailing islands.
These trees cannot be used to obtain a bucket of sap.
Woodcutting info
Mechanics
The 'basic' tree category also includes the dying tree, dead tree, evergreen tree, and jungle tree. Trees in this category give logs when cut and are always downed after one section cut.
The tree respawns between 36–60 seconds, randomly, and is not influenced by world population.
The chance to successfully chop is affected by the axe used and Woodcutting level, better axes and a higher woodcutting level increases the likelihood of successfully receiving a log.
Kandarin headgear 1 and above gives double logs when cutting any normal tree.
Cut chance


## Tools & Equipment (396 articles)
----------------------------------------

### '24-carat' sword
The '24-carat' sword is a fun weapon first obtained as a reward from the 2020 Easter event by using the carrot sword on the paint buckets at the top of Duke Rabbacio's castle. Upon doing so, a message in the chatbox states You dunk your sword into the paint turning it into a 24 Carot Gold Sword!
It is classified as a fun weapon in legacy duels within the Emir's Arena because it gives the player negative bonuses.
If destroyed, a replacement can be obtained from Diango in Draynor Village or from the toy box of a costume room, as part of the 2020: Easter Carrot Swords set. Ultimate Ironmen will be unable to retrieve individual pieces until the full set is stored.


### 20th anniversary boots
The 20th anniversary boots are an item that can be obtained from participating in any birthday event, and was first obtained from the 20th Anniversary event.
If destroyed, a replacement can be obtained from Diango in Draynor Village or from the toy box of a costume room, as part of the 2021: 20th Anniversary Outfit set. Ultimate Ironmen will be unable to retrieve individual pieces until the full set is stored.


### 20th anniversary gloves
The 20th anniversary gloves are an item that can be obtained from participating in any birthday event, and was first obtained from the 20th Anniversary event.
If destroyed, a replacement can be obtained from Diango in Draynor Village or from the toy box of a costume room, as part of the 2021: 20th Anniversary Outfit set. Ultimate Ironmen will be unable to retrieve individual pieces until the full set is stored.


### 25th anniversary helmet
25th anniversary helmet is an item that can be obtained from participating in any birthday event, and was first obtained from the 25th Anniversary event. It resembles the helmet worn by Crunchy.
If destroyed, a replacement can be obtained from Diango in Draynor Village or from the toy box of a costume room.


### 3rd age axe
The 3rd age axe is a piece of 3rd age equipment. It requires 65 Attack to wield and 61 Woodcutting to use and shares the same cutting speed, special attack, and stats as a dragon axe.
It is a possible reward from master Treasure Trails and cannot be made through any skills. Despite being listed on the Grand Exchange for the maximum amount of coins, it is typically traded amongst players for more than that.
This item can be stored in the treasure chest of a costume room, provided that the master clue interface is opened before attempting to store the item. Alternatively, the item can be used on the opened treasure chest to insert it without viewing the interface.


... and 396 more Tools & Equipment articles (truncated for context size)

## Food & Potions (168 articles)
----------------------------------------

... and 168 more Food & Potions articles (truncated for context size)

## Fish & Fishing (156 articles)
----------------------------------------

... and 156 more Fish & Fishing articles (truncated for context size)

## Trees & Woodcutting (169 articles)
----------------------------------------

... and 169 more Trees & Woodcutting articles (truncated for context size)

## Locations (138 articles)
----------------------------------------

... and 138 more Locations articles (truncated for context size)

## NPCs & Monsters (212 articles)
----------------------------------------

... and 212 more NPCs & Monsters articles (truncated for context size)

## Quests (429 articles)
----------------------------------------

... and 429 more Quests articles (truncated for context size)

## Transportation (26 articles)
----------------------------------------

... and 26 more Transportation articles (truncated for context size)

## General (2319 articles)
----------------------------------------

... and 2319 more General articles (truncated for context size)